<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">In Which the Queens Invade Society</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Wednesday morning found Djuna pouring the coffee before a bemused Inspector and a chattering Ellery. The telephone bell rang. Both Ellery and his father jumped for the instrument.</p>
			<p>“Here! What are you doing?” exclaimed Queen. “I’m expecting a call and that’s it!”</p>
			<p>“Now, now, sir, allow a bibliophile the privilege of using his own telephone,” retorted Ellery. “I have a feeling that that’s my friend the book-dealer calling me about the elusive Falconer.”</p>
			<p>“Look here, Ellery, don’t start⁠—” While they were chaffing each other good-naturedly across the table, Djuna picked up the telephone.</p>
			<p>“The Inspector⁠—the Inspector, did you say? Inspector⁠—” said Djuna, grinning as he held the mouthpiece to his thin chest, “it’s for you.”</p>
			<p>Ellery subsided in his chair while Queen, with an air of triumph, snatched the instrument.</p>
			<p>“Yes?”</p>
			<p>“Stoates calling from Field’s office, Inspector,” came a fresh cheery young voice. “I want to put <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cronin on the wire.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector’s brow wrinkled in anticipation. Ellery was listening intently, and even Djuna, with the monkey-like eagerness of his sharp features, had become rooted to his corner, as if he, too, awaited important news. Djuna in this respect resembled his brother anthropoid⁠—there was an alertness, a bright inquisitiveness in his attitude and mien which delighted the Queens eternally.</p>
			<p>Finally a high-pitched voice came over the wire. “This is Tim Cronin speaking, Inspector,” it said. “How are you? I haven’t got round to seeing you for an age.”</p>
			<p>“I’m getting a little bent and withered, Tim, but otherwise I’m still all there,” returned Queen. “What’s on your mind? Have you found anything?”</p>
			<p>“Now that’s the very peculiar part of the whole business, Inspector,” came Cronin’s excited tones. “As you know, I’ve been watching this bird Field for years. He’s been my pet nightmare for as long as I can remember. The <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">D.A.</abbr> tells me that he gave you the story night before last, so I needn’t go into it. But in all these years of watching and waiting and digging I’ve never been able to find a solitary piece of evidence against that crook that I could bring into a courtroom. And he was a crook, Inspector⁠—I’d stake my life on that.⁠ ⁠… Anyway, it’s the old story here. I really shouldn’t have hoped for anything better, knowing Field as I did. And yet⁠—well, I couldn’t help praying that somewhere, somehow, he would slip up, and that I’d nail it when I could get my hands on his private records. Inspector⁠—there’s nothing doing.”</p>
			<p>Queen’s face reflected a fleeting disappointment, which Ellery interpreted with a sigh, rising as he did so to walk restlessly up and down the room.</p>
			<p>“I guess we can’t help it, Tim,” returned Queen, with an effort at heartiness. “Don’t worry⁠—we’ve other irons in the fire.”</p>
			<p>“Inspector,” said Cronin abruptly, “you’ve got your hands full. Field was a really slick article. And from the way it looks to me, the genius who could get past his guard and put him away is a really slick article, too. He couldn’t be anything else. Incidentally, we’re not halfway through with the files and maybe what we’ve looked over isn’t as unpromising as I made it sound. There’s plenty here to suggest shady work on Field’s part⁠—it s just that there’s no direct incriminating evidence. We’re hoping that we find something as we go on.”</p>
			<p>“All right, Tim⁠—keep up the good work,” muttered the Inspector. “And let me know how you make out.⁠ ⁠… Is Lewin there?”</p>
			<p>“You mean the office manager?” Cronin’s voice lowered. “He’s around somewhere. Why?”</p>
			<p>“You want to keep your eye peeled,” said Queen. “I have a sneaking suspicion he’s not as stupid as he sounds. Just don’t let him get too familiar with any records lying around. For all we know, he may have been in on Field’s little sideline.”</p>
			<p>“Right, Inspector. Call you sometime later,” and the receiver clicked as Cronin hung up.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>At ten-thirty Queen and Ellery pushed open the high gate at the entrance to the Ives-Pope residence on Riverside Drive. Ellery was moved to remark that the atmosphere was a perfect invitation to formal morning-dress and that he was going to feel extremely uncomfortable when they were admitted through the stone portals.</p>
			<p>In truth, the house which concealed the destinies of the Ives-Popes was in many respects awe-inspiring to men of the modest tastes of the Queens. It was a huge rambling old stone house, set far back from the Drive, hunched on the greensward of a respectable acreage. “Must have cost a pretty penny,” grunted the Inspector as his eyes swept the rolling lawns surrounding the building. Gardens and summerhouses; walks and bowered nooks⁠—one would have thought himself miles away from the city which roared by a scant few rods away, behind the high iron palings which circled the mansion. The Ives-Popes were immensely wealthy and brought to this not uncommon possession a lineage stretching back into the dim recesses of American colonization.</p>
			<p>The front door was opened by a whiskered patrician whose back seemed composed of steel and whose nose was elevated at a perilous angle toward the ceiling. Ellery lounged in the doorway, surveying this uniformed nobleman with admiration, while Inspector Queen fumbled in his pockets for a card. He was a long time producing one; the stiff-backed flunkey stood graven into stone. Red-faced, the Inspector finally discovered a battered card. He placed it on the extended salver and watched the butler retreat to some cavern of his own.</p>
			<p>Ellery chuckled as his father drew himself up at the sight of Franklin Ives-Pope’s burly figure emerging from a wide carved doorway.</p>
			<p>The financier hurried toward them.</p>
			<p>“Inspector! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Queen!” he exclaimed in a cordial tone. “Come right in. Have you been waiting long?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector mumbled a greeting. They walked through a high-ceilinged shining-floored hall, decorated with austere old furniture.</p>
			<p>“You’re on the dot, gentlemen,” said Ives-Pope, standing aside to allow them to pass into a large room. “Here are some additional members of our little board-meeting. I think you know all of us present.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector and Ellery looked about. “I know everybody, sir, except that gentleman⁠—I presume he is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stanford Ives-Pope,” said Queen. “I’m afraid my son has still to make the acquaintance of⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Peale, is it?⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry⁠—and, of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope.”</p>
			<p>The introductions were made in a strained fashion. “Ah, Q!” murmured District Attorney Sampson, hurrying across the room. “I wouldn’t have missed this for the world,” he said in a low tone. “First time I’ve met most of the people who’ll be present at the inquisition.”</p>
			<p>“What is that fellow Peale doing here?” muttered Queen to the District Attorney, while Ellery crossed the room to engage the three young men on the other side in conversation. Ives-Pope had excused himself and disappeared.</p>
			<p>“He’s a friend of young Ives-Pope, and, of course, he’s chummy with Barry there, too,” returned the District Attorney. “I gathered from the chitchat before you came that Stanford, Ives-Pope’s son, originally introduced these professional people to his sister Frances. That’s how she met Barry and fell in love with him. Peale seems on good terms with the young lady, too.”</p>
			<p>“I wonder how much Ives-Pope and his aristocratic spouse like the bourgeois company their children keep,” said the Inspector, eyeing the small group on the other side of the room with interest.</p>
			<p>“You’ll find out soon enough,” chuckled Sampson. “Just watch the icicles dripping from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope’s eyebrows every time she sees one of these actors. I imagine they’re about as welcome as a bunch of Bolsheviks.”</p>
			<p>Queen put his hands behind his back and stared curiously about the room. It was a library, well stocked with rich and rare books, catalogued carefully and immaculate behind shining glass. A desk dominated the center of the room. It was unpretentious for a millionaire’s study, the Inspector noted with approval.</p>
			<p>“Incidentally,” resumed Sampson, “Eve Ellis, the girl who you said was with Miss Ives-Pope and her fiancé at the Roman Theatre Monday night is here, too. She’s upstairs keeping the little heiress company, I imagine. Don’t think the old lady likes it much. But they’re both charming girls.”</p>
			<p>“What a pleasant place this must be when the Ives-Popes and the actors get together in private!” grunted Queen.</p>
			<p>The four young men strolled toward them. Stanford Ives-Pope was a slender, well-manicured young man, fashionably dressed. There were deep pouches under his eyes. He wore a restless air of boredom that Queen was quick to note. Both Peale and Barry, the actors, were attired faultlessly.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Queen tells me that you’ve got a pretty problem on your hands, Inspector,” drawled Stanford Ives-Pope. “We’re all uncommonly sorry to see poor sis dragged into it. How in the world did her purse ever get into that chap’s pocket? Barry hasn’t slept for days over Frances’ predicament, I give you my word!”</p>
			<p>“My dear young man,” said the Inspector, with a twinkle in his eye, “if I knew how Miss Ives-Pope’s purse found its way into Monte Field’s pocket, I wouldn’t be here this morning. That’s just one of the things that make this case so infernally interesting.”</p>
			<p>“The pleasure’s all yours, Inspector. But you certainly can’t think Frances had the slightest connection with all this?”</p>
			<p>Queen smiled. “I can’t think anything yet, young man,” he protested. “I haven’t heard what your sister has to say about it.”</p>
			<p>“She’ll explain all right, Inspector,” said Stephen Barry, his handsome face drawn into lines of fatigue. “You needn’t worry about that. It’s the damnable suspicion that she’s open to that makes me angry⁠—the whole thing is ridiculous!”</p>
			<p>“I know just how you feel, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry,” said the Inspector kindly. “And I want to take this opportunity of apologizing for my conduct the other night. I was perhaps a little⁠—harsh.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose I ought to apologize, too,” returned Barry, with a wan smile. “I guess I said a few things I didn’t mean in that office. In the heat of the moment⁠—seeing Frances⁠—Miss Ives-Pope go off in a faint⁠—” He paused awkwardly.</p>
			<p>Peale, a massive giant, ruddy and wholesome in his morning clothes, put his arm affectionately about Barry’s shoulders. “I’m sure the Inspector understood, Steve old boy,” he said cheerfully. “Don’t take it so much to heart⁠—everything’s bound to come out all right.”</p>
			<p>“You can leave it to Inspector Queen,” said Sampson, nudging the Inspector jovially in the ribs. “He’s the only bloodhound I’ve ever met who has a heart under his badge⁠—and if Miss Ives-Pope can clear this thing up to his satisfaction, even to a reasonable extent, that will be the end of it.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I don’t know,” murmured Ellery thoughtfully. “Dad’s a great one for surprises. As for Miss Ives-Pope”⁠—he smiled ruefully and bowed to the actor⁠—“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry, you’re a deucedly lucky fellow.”</p>
			<p>“You wouldn’t think so if you saw the mater,” drawled Stanford Ives-Pope. “If I’m not mistaken, here she barges in now.”</p>
			<p>The men turned toward the door. An enormously stout woman was waddling in. A uniformed nurse supported her carefully under one huge arm, holding a large green bottle in her other hand. The financier followed briskly, by the side of a white-haired youngish looking man, wearing a dark coat and holding a black bag in his hand.</p>
			<p>“Catharine, my dear,” said Ives-Pope in a low voice to the stout woman as she sank into a great-chair, “these are the gentlemen whom I told you about⁠—Inspector Richard Queen and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ellery Queen.”</p>
			<p>The two Queens bowed, receiving a stony glance from the myopic eyes of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope. “Charmed, I’m sure,” she shrilled. “Where’s Nurse? Nurse! I feel faint, please.”</p>
			<p>The uniformed girl hurried to her side, the green bottle ready. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope closed her eyes and inhaled, sighing with relief. The financier hurriedly introduced the white-haired man, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Vincent Cornish, the family physician. The physician made swift apologies and disappeared behind the butler. “Great chap, this Cornish,” whispered Sampson to Queen. “Not only the most fashionable doctor on the Drive, but a genuine scientist as well.” The Inspector elevated his brows, but said nothing.</p>
			<p>“The mater’s one reason why I never cared for the medical profession,” Stanford Ives-Pope was saying in a loud whisper to Ellery.</p>
			<p>“Ah! Frances, my dear!” Ives-Pope hurried forward, followed by Barry, who dashed for the door. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope’s fishy stare enveloped his back with cold disapproval. James Peale coughed embarrassedly and made a mumbled remark to Sampson.</p>
			<p>Frances, attired in a filmy morning-gown, her face pale and drawn, entered the room leaning heavily on the arm of Eve Ellis, the actress. Her smile was somewhat forced as she murmured a greeting to the Inspector. Eve Ellis was introduced by Peale and the two girls seated themselves near <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope. The old lady was sitting squarely in her chair, glaring about her like a lioness whose cub has been threatened. Two servants appeared silently and set chairs for the men. At Ives-Pope’s urgent request Queen sat down at the big desk. Ellery refused a chair, preferring to lean against a bookcase behind and to the side of the company.</p>
			<p>When the conversation had died away the Inspector cleared his throat and turned toward Frances, who after a startled flutter of the eyelids returned his glance steadily.</p>
			<p>“First of all, Miss Frances⁠—I hope I may call you that,” began Queen in a fatherly tone, “allow me to explain my tactics of Monday night and to apologize for what must have seemed to you a totally unwarranted severity. From what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope has told me, you can explain your actions on the night of the murder of Monte Field. I take it, therefore, that as far as you are concerned our little chat this morning will effectually remove you from the investigation. Before we have that chat, please believe me when I say that Monday night you were to me merely one of a number of suspicious characters. I acted in accordance with my habits in such cases. I see now how, to a woman of your breeding and social position, a grilling by a policeman under such tense circumstances would cause sufficient shock to bring on your present condition.”</p>
			<p>Frances smiled wearily. “You’re forgiven, Inspector,” she said in a clear, low voice. “It was my fault for being so foolish. I’m ready to answer any questions you may care to ask me.”</p>
			<p>“In just a moment, my dear.” The Inspector shifted a bit to include the entire silent company in his next remark. “I should like to make one point, ladies and gentlemen,” he said gravely. “We are assembled here for a definite purpose, which is to discover a possible connection, and there must be one, between the fact that Miss Ives-Pope’s bag was found in the dead man’s pocket, and the fact that Miss Ives-Pope apparently was unable to explain this circumstance. Now, whether this morning’s work bears fruit or not, I must ask you all to keep whatever is said a profound secret. As District Attorney Sampson knows very well, I do not generally conduct an investigation with such a large audience. But I am making this exception because I believe you are all deeply concerned in the unfortunate young lady who has been drawn into this crime. You cannot, however, expect any consideration at my hands if one word of today’s conversation reaches outside ears. Do we understand each other?”</p>
			<p>“I say, Inspector,” protested young Ives-Pope, “that’s putting it a bit strong, don’t you think? We all of us know the story, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope,” retorted the Inspector with a grim smile, “that is the reason I have consented to have all of you here.”</p>
			<p>There was a little rustle and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope opened her mouth as if to burst into wrathful speech. A sharp look from her husband made her lips droop together, with the protest unuttered. She transferred her glare to the actress sitting by Frances’ side. Eve Ellis blushed. The nurse stood by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope with the smelling salts, like a setter-dog about to point.</p>
			<p>“Now, Miss Frances,” resumed Queen kindly, “this is where we stand. I examine the body of a dead man named Monte Field, prominent lawyer, who was apparently enjoying an interesting play before he was so unceremoniously done away with, and find, in the rear coattail pocket of his full-dress suit, an evening bag. I identify this as yours by a few calling cards and some personal papers inside. I say to myself, ‘Aha! A lady enters the problem!’⁠—naturally enough. And I send one of my men to summon you, with the idea of allowing you to explain a most suspicious circumstance. You come⁠—and you faint on being confronted with your property and the news of its place of discovery. At the time, I say to myself, ‘This young lady knows something!’⁠—a not unnatural conclusion. Now, in what way can you convince me that you know nothing⁠—and that your fainting was caused only by the shock of the thing? Remember, Miss Frances⁠—I am putting the problem not as Richard Queen but as a policeman looking for the truth.”</p>
			<p>“My story is not as illuminating, perhaps, as you might like it to be, Inspector,” answered Frances quietly, in the deep hush that followed Queen’s peroration. “I don’t see how it is going to help you at all. But some facts which I think unimportant may be significant to your trained mind.⁠ ⁠… Roughly, this is what happened.</p>
			<p>“I came to be in the Roman Theatre Monday night in a natural way. Since my engagement to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry, although it has been a very quiet affair”⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope sniffed; her husband looked steadfastly at a point beyond his daughter’s dark hair⁠—“I have often dropped into the theatre, following a habit of meeting my fiancé after the performance. At such times he would either escort me home or take me to some place in the neighborhood for supper. Generally we make arrangements beforehand for these theatre-meetings; but sometimes I drop in unexpectedly if the opportunity presents itself. Monday night was one of those times.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>“I got to the Roman a few minutes before the end of the first act, since I have of course seen ‘Gunplay’ any number of times. I had my regular seat⁠—arranged for me many weeks ago by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry through <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Panzer⁠—and had no more than settled myself to watch the performance when the curtain came down for the first intermission. I was feeling a little warm; the air was none too good.⁠ ⁠… I went first to the ladies’ restroom, downstairs off the general lounge. Then I came up again and went out into the alley through the open door. There was quite a crowd of people there, enjoying the air.”</p>
			<p>She paused for a moment and Ellery, leaning against the bookcase, sharply surveyed the faces of the little audience. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope was looking about in her leviathan manner; Ives-Pope was still staring at the wall above Frances’ head; Stanford was biting his fingernails; Peale and Barry were both watching Frances with nervous sympathy, looking furtively at Queen as if to gauge the effect of her words upon him; Eve Ellis’s hand had stolen forward to clasp Frances’ firmly.</p>
			<p>The Inspector cleared his throat once more.</p>
			<p>“Which alley was it, Miss Frances⁠—the one on the left or the one on the right?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“The one on the left, Inspector,” she answered promptly.</p>
			<p>“You know I was sitting in M8 Left, and I suppose it was natural for me to go to the alley on that side.”</p>
			<p>“Quite so,” said Queen, smiling. “Go on, please.”</p>
			<p>“I stepped out into the alley,” she resumed, less nervously, “and, not seeing anyone I knew, stood close to the brick wall of the theatre, a little behind the open iron door. The freshness of the night-air after the rain was delightful. I hadn’t been standing there more than two minutes when I felt somebody brush up against me. I naturally moved a little to one side, thinking the person had stumbled. But when he⁠—it was a man⁠—when he did it again, I became a little frightened and started to walk away. He⁠—he grasped my wrist and pulled me back. We were halfway behind the iron door, which was not pushed back completely and I doubt if anyone noticed his action.”</p>
			<p>“I see⁠—I see,” murmured the Inspector sympathetically. “It seems an unusual thing for a total stranger to do in a public place.”</p>
			<p>“It seemed as if he wanted to kiss me, Inspector. He leaned over and whispered, ‘Good evening, honey!’ and⁠—well, of course, I jumped to that conclusion. I drew back a little and said as coldly as I could, ‘Please let me go, or I will call for help.’ He just laughed at that and bent closer. The reek of whisky on his breath was overpowering. It made me ill.”</p>
			<p>She stopped. Eve Ellis patted her hand reassuringly. Peale nudged Barry forcibly as the young man half-rose to his feet in muttered protest. “Miss Frances, I’m going to ask you a peculiar question⁠—it’s almost ridiculous when you come to think of it,” said the Inspector, leaning back in his chair. “Did the reek on his breath suggest good liquor or bad liquor?⁠ ⁠… There! I knew you’d smile.” And the entire company tittered at the whimsical expression on Queen’s face.</p>
			<p>“Well, Inspector⁠—it’s hard to answer that,” returned the girl freely. “I’m afraid I’m not on intimate terms with spirits. But from what I can remember, it had the odor of rather fine liquor. Fine liquor⁠—but plenty of it!” she concluded with a grim little toss of her head.</p>
			<p>“I would’ve spotted the vintage in a minute if I’d been there!” muttered Stanford Ives-Pope.</p>
			<p>His father’s lips tightened, but after a moment they relaxed into the suspicion of a grin. He shook his head warningly at his son.</p>
			<p>“Go ahead, Miss Frances,” said the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“I was terribly frightened,” the girl confessed, with a tremor of her red lips. “And feeling nauseated and all⁠—I wrenched away from his outstretched hand and stumbled blindly into the theatre. The next thing I remember is sitting in my seat listening to the warning ring of the backstage bell, announcing the beginning of the second act. I really don’t remember how I got there. My heart was in my throat and now I distinctly recall thinking that I would not tell Stephen⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry⁠—anything about the incident for fear he would want to look up this man and punish him. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry is terribly jealous, you know.” She smiled tenderly at her fiancé, who suddenly smiled back at her.</p>
			<p>“And that, Inspector, is all I know about what happened Monday night,” she resumed. “I know you’re going to ask me where my purse comes into it. Well⁠—it doesn’t at all, Inspector. Because on my word of honor I can’t remember a thing about it!”</p>
			<p>Queen shifted in his chair. “And how is that, Miss Frances?”</p>
			<p>“Actually, I didn’t even know I had lost it until you showed it to me in the manager’s office,” she answered bravely. “I recall taking it with me when I rose at the end of the first act to go to the restroom; and also opening it there to use my powder-puff. But whether I left it there or dropped it later, somewhere else, I don’t know to this minute.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you think, Miss Frances,” interposed Queen, reaching for his snuffbox and then guiltily dropping it back into his pocket as he met the icy gaze of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope, “that you might have dropped it in the alley after this man accosted you?”</p>
			<p>A look of relief spread over the girl’s face, and it became almost animated. “Why, Inspector!” she cried. “That was just what I have thought about it all the time, but it seemed such a lame explanation⁠—and I was so horribly afraid that I might be caught in a sort of⁠—of spider’s web.⁠ ⁠… I just couldn’t bring myself to tell you that! While I don’t actually remember, it seems logical, doesn’t it?⁠—that I dropped it when he grasped my wrist and entirely forgot about it afterward.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector smiled. “On the contrary, my dear,” he said, “it is the only explanation which seems to cover the facts. In all probability this man found it there⁠—picked it up⁠—and in a moment of half-drunken amourousness put it into his pocket, probably intending to return it to you later. In this way he would have had another opportunity to meet you. He seems to have been quite smitten by your charms, my dear⁠—and no wonder.” And the Inspector bowed a little stiffly while the girl, the color in her face now completely restored, favored him with a dazzling smile.</p>
			<p>“Now⁠—a few things more, Miss Frances, and this little inquisition will be over,” continued Queen. “Can you describe his physical appearance?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes!” Frances returned quickly. “He made a rather forcible impression on me, as you can imagine. He was a trifle taller than I⁠—that would make him about five feet eight⁠—and inclined to corpulence. His face was bloated and he had deep leaden-colored pouches under his eyes. I’ve never seen a more dissipated-looking man. He was clean-shaven. There was nothing remarkable about his features except perhaps a prominent nose.”</p>
			<p>“That would be our friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Field, all right,” remarked the Inspector grimly. “Now⁠—think carefully, Miss Frances. Did you ever meet this man anywhere before⁠—did you recognize him at all?”</p>
			<p>The girl responded instantly. “I don’t have to think much about that, Inspector. I can answer positively that I never saw the man before in my life!”</p>
			<p>The pause which ensued was broken by the cool, even tones of Ellery. All heads turned toward him in a startled manner as he spoke.</p>
			<p>“I beg your pardon, Miss Ives-Pope, for interrupting,” he said affably. “But I am curious to know whether you noticed how the man who accosted you was dressed.”</p>
			<p>Frances turned her smile upon Ellery, who blinked quite humanly. “I didn’t take particular notice of his clothes, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Queen,” she said, displaying white, brilliant teeth. “But I seem to remember his wearing a full-dress suit⁠—his shirt-bosom was a little stained⁠—they were like liquor-stains⁠—and a tophat. From what I recall of his attire, it was rather fastidious and in good taste, except, of course, for the stains on his shirt.”</p>
			<p>Ellery murmured a fascinated thanks and subsided against the bookcase. With a sharp look at his son, Queen rose to his feet.</p>
			<p>“Then that will be all, ladies and gentlemen. I think we may safely consider the incident closed.”</p>
			<p>There was an instantaneous little burst of approval and everybody rose to press in on Frances, who was radiant with happiness. Barry, Peale and Eve Ellis bore Frances off in triumphal march, while Stanford, with a lugubrious smile, offered his mother a carefully elbowed arm.</p>
			<p>“Thus endeth the first lesson,” he announced gravely. “Mater, my arm before you faint!” A protesting <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope departed, leaning ponderously on her son.</p>
			<p>Ives-Pope shook Queen’s hand vigorously. “Then you think it’s all over as far as my girl is concerned?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“I think so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope,” answered the Inspector. “Well, sir, thank you for your courtesy. And now we must be going⁠—lots of work to do. Coming, Henry?”</p>
			<p>Five minutes later Queen, Ellery and District Attorney Sampson were striding side by side down Riverside Drive toward 72nd Street, earnestly discussing the events of the morning.</p>
			<p>“I’m glad that line of investigation is cleared up with no result,” said Sampson dreamily. “By the Lord Harry, I admire that girl’s pluck, Q!”</p>
			<p>“Good child,” said the Inspector. “What do you think, Ellery?” he asked suddenly, turning on his son, who was walking along staring at the River.</p>
			<p>“Oh, she’s charming,” Ellery said at once, his abstracted eyes brightening.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t mean the girl, my son,” said his father irritably. “I meant the general aspect of the morning’s work.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that!” Ellery smiled a little. “Do you mind if I become Æsopian?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” groaned his father.</p>
			<p>“A lion,” said Ellery, “may be beholden to a mouse.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
