<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI: In Which the District Attorney Turns Biographer</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">In Which the District Attorney Turns Biographer</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Inspector Richard Queen was a peculiar man. Small and wiry, thatched with grey and wrinkled in fine lines of experience, he might have been a business executive, a night-watchman, or what he chose. Certainly, in the proper raiment, his quiet figure would mold itself to any disguise.</p>
			<p>This ready adaptability was carried out in his manner as well. Few people knew him as he was. To his associates, to his enemies, to the forlorn scraps of humanity whom he turned over to the due processes of the law, he remained ever a source of wonder. He could be theatrical when he chose, or mild, or pompous, or fatherly, or bulldogging.</p>
			<p>But underneath, as someone has said with an over-emphatic sentimentality, the Inspector had ‚Äúa heart of gold.‚Äù Inside he was harmless, and keen, and not a little hurt by the cruelties of the world. It was true that to the people who officially came under his eye he was never twice the same. He was constantly whirling into some new facet of personality. He found this to be good business; people never understood him, never knew what he was going to do or say, and consequently they were always a little afraid of him.</p>
			<p>Now that he was alone, back in Panzer‚Äôs office, the door shut tight, his investigations temporarily halted, the true character of the man shone from his face. At this moment it was an old face‚ÅÝ‚Äîold physically, old and wise spiritually. The incident of the girl he had startled into unconsciousness was uppermost in his mind. The memory of her drawn, horrified face made him wince. Frances Ives-Pope seemed to personify everything a man of years could hope for in his own daughter. To see her shrink under the lash pained him. To see her fianc√© turn fiercely in her defense made him blush.</p>
			<p>Abstemious except for his one mild dissipation, the Inspector reached for his snuffbox with a sigh and sniffed freely.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>When there came a peremptory knock on the door, he was the chameleon again‚ÅÝ‚Äîa detective-inspector sitting at a desk and no doubt thinking clever and ponderous thoughts. In truth, he was wishing that Ellery would come back.</p>
			<p>At his hearty ‚ÄúCome in!‚Äù the door swung open to admit a thin, bright-eyed man dressed in heavy overclothes, a woolen muffler wound about his neck.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHenry!‚Äù exclaimed the Inspector, starting to his feet. ‚ÄúWhat the dickens are you doing here? I thought the doctor had ordered you to stay in bed!‚Äù</p>
			<p>District Attorney Henry Sampson winked as he slumped into an armchair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDoctors,‚Äù he said didactically, ‚Äúdoctors give me a pain in the neck. How are tricks?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He groaned and felt his throat gingerly. The Inspector sat down again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFor a grown man, Henry,‚Äù he said decisively, ‚Äúyou‚Äôre the most unruly patient I‚Äôve ever seen. Man alive, you‚Äôll catch pneumonia if you don‚Äôt watch out!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell,‚Äù grinned the District Attorney, ‚ÄúI carry a lot of insurance, so I should worry.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ You haven‚Äôt answered my question.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, yes,‚Äù grunted Queen. ‚ÄúYour question. How‚Äôs tricks, I think you asked? Tricks, my dear Henry, are at present in a state of complete nullity. Does that satisfy you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKindly be more explicit,‚Äù said Sampson. ‚ÄúRemember, I‚Äôm a sick man and my head is buzzing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHenry,‚Äù said Queen, leaning forward earnestly, ‚ÄúI warn you that we‚Äôre in the midst of one of the toughest cases this department has ever handled.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Is <em>your</em> head buzzing? I‚Äôd hate to tell you what‚Äôs happening in mine!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sampson regarded him with a frown. ‚ÄúIf it‚Äôs as you say‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I suppose it is‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis comes at a rotten time. Election‚Äôs not so far off‚ÅÝ‚Äîan unsolved murder handled by the improper parties.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, that‚Äôs one way of looking at it,‚Äù remarked Queen, in a low voice. ‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt exactly thinking of this affair in terms of votes, Henry. A man‚Äôs been killed‚ÅÝ‚Äîand at the moment I‚Äôll be frank enough to admit that I haven‚Äôt the slightest idea who did the job or how.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI accept your well-meant rebuke, Inspector,‚Äù said Sampson, in a lighter tone. ‚ÄúBut if you‚Äôd heard what I did a few moments ago‚ÅÝ‚Äîover the telephone.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne moment, my dear Watson, as Ellery would say,‚Äù chuckled Queen, with that startling change of temperament so characteristic of him. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll bet I know what happened. You were at home, probably in bed. Your telephone rang. A voice began to crab, protest, gurgle, and do all the other things a voice does when its owner is excited. The voice said, ‚ÄòI won‚Äôt stand for being cooped up by the police, like a common criminal! I want that man Queen severely reprimanded! He‚Äôs a menace to personal liberty!‚Äô And so on, in words of that general tenor.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy dear fellow!‚Äù said Sampson, laughing.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis gentleman, the owner of the protesting voice,‚Äù continued the Inspector, ‚Äúis short, rather stout, wears gold-rimmed eyeglasses, has an exceedingly disagreeable feminine voice, displays a really touching concern for his family‚ÅÝ‚Äîone wife and one daughter‚ÅÝ‚Äîin the presence of possible publicity agents, and always refers to you as his ‚Äòvery good friend, District Attorney Sampson.‚Äô Correct?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sampson sat staring at him. Then his keen face creased into a smile.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPerfectly astounding, my dear Holmes!‚Äù he murmured. ‚ÄúSince you know so much about my friend, perhaps it would be child‚Äôs-play for you to give me his name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEr‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut that was the fellow, wasn‚Äôt it?‚Äù said Queen, his face scarlet. ‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîEllery, my boy! I‚Äôm glad to see you!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Ellery had entered the room. He shook hands cordially with Sampson, who greeted him with a pleasure born of long association, and made a remark about the dangers of a District Attorney‚Äôs life, briskly setting down on the desk a huge container of coffee and a paper bag pleasantly suggestive of French pastry.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, gentlemen, the great search is finished, over, kaput, and the perspiring detectives will now partake of midnight tiffin.‚Äù He laughed and slapped his father affectionately on the shoulder.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut, Ellery!‚Äù cried Queen delightedly. ‚ÄúThis is a welcome surprise! Henry, will you join us in a little celebration?‚Äù He filled three paper cups with the steaming coffee.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know what you‚Äôre celebrating, but count me in,‚Äù said Sampson and the three men fell to with enthusiasm.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs happened, Ellery?‚Äù asked the old man, sipping his coffee contentedly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGods do not eat, neither do they drink,‚Äù murmured Ellery, from behind a cream puff. ‚ÄúI am not omnipotent, and suppose you tell me what happened in your impromptu torture-chamber.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I can tell you one thing you don‚Äôt know, however. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLibby, of Libby‚Äôs ice-cream parlor, whence came these elegant cakes, confirms Jess Lynch‚Äôs story about the ginger ale. And Miss Elinor Libby nicely corroborated the alley story.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Queen wiped his lips daintily with a huge handkerchief. ‚ÄúWell, let Prouty make sure about the ginger ale, anyway. As for me, I interviewed several people and now I have nothing to do.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you,‚Äù remarked Ellery dryly. ‚ÄúThat was a perfect recitation. Have you acquainted the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">D.A.</abbr> with the events of this tumultuous evening?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGentlemen,‚Äù said Sampson, setting down his cup, ‚Äúhere‚Äôs what I know. About a half-hour ago I was telephoned by ‚Äòone of my very good friends‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîwho happens to wield a little power behind the scenes‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he told me in no uncertain terms that during tonight‚Äôs performance a man was murdered. Inspector Richard Queen, he said, had descended upon the theatorium like a whirlwind, accompanied by his minor whirlwinds, and had proceeded to make everybody wait over an hour‚ÅÝ‚Äîan inexcusable, totally unwarranted procedure, my friend charged. He further deposed that said Inspector even went so far as to accuse him personally of the crime, and had domineering policemen search him and his wife and daughter before they were allowed to leave the theatre.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo much for my informant‚Äôs story‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe rest of his conversation, being rather profane, is irrelevant. The only other thing I know is that Velie told me outside who the murdered man was. And <em>that</em>, gentlemen, was the most interesting part of the whole story.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou know almost as much about this case as I do,‚Äù grunted Queen. ‚ÄúProbably more, because I have an idea you are thoroughly familiar with Field‚Äôs operations.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Ellery, what happened outside during the search?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Ellery crossed his legs comfortably. ‚ÄúAs you might have guessed, the search of the audience was entirely without result. Nothing out of the way was found. Not one solitary thing. Nobody looked guilty, and nobody took it upon himself to confess. In other words, it was a complete fiasco.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course, of course,‚Äù said Queen. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs somebody almighty clever behind this business. I suppose you didn‚Äôt even come across the suspicion of an extra hat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat, dad,‚Äù remarked Ellery, ‚Äúwas what I was decorating the lobby for. No‚ÅÝ‚Äîno hat.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre they all through out there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust finished when I strolled across the street for the refreshments,‚Äù said Ellery. ‚ÄúThere was nothing else to do but allow the angry mob in the gallery to file downstairs and out into the street. Everybody‚Äôs out now‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe galleryites, the employees, the cast.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Queer species, actors. All night they play God and then suddenly they find themselves reduced to ordinary street clothes and the ills that flesh is heir to. By the way, Velie also searched the five people who came out of this office. Quite a motor that young lady possesses. Miss Ives-Pope and her party, I gathered.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Didn‚Äôt know but that you might have forgotten them,‚Äù he chuckled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo we‚Äôre up a tree, eh?‚Äù muttered the Inspector. ‚ÄúHere‚Äôs the story, Henry.‚Äù And he gave a concise resume of the evening‚Äôs events to Sampson, who sat silently throughout, frowning.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd that,‚Äù concluded Queen, after describing briefly the scenes enacted in the little office, ‚Äúis that. Now, Henry, you must have something to tell us about Monte Field. We know that he was a slick article‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut that‚Äôs all we do know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat would be putting it mildly,‚Äù said Sampson savagely. ‚ÄúI can give you almost by rote the story of his life. It looks to me as if you‚Äôre going to have a difficult time and some incident in his past might give you a clue.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúField first came under the scrutiny of my office during my predecessor‚Äôs regime. He was suspected of negotiating a swindle connected with the bucket-shop scandals. Cronin, an assistant <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">D.A.</abbr> at the time, couldn‚Äôt get a thing on him. Field had covered his operations well. All we had was the telltale story, which might or might not have been true, of a ‚Äòstool-pigeon‚Äô who had been kicked out of the mob. Of course, Cronin never let on to Field directly or indirectly that he was under suspicion. The affair blew over and although Cronin was a bulldog, every time he thought he had something he found that he had nothing after all. Oh, no question about it‚ÅÝ‚ÄîField was slick.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhen I came into office, on Cronin‚Äôs fervent suggestion we began an exhaustive investigation of Field‚Äôs background. On the <abbr>q.t.</abbr>, of course. And this is what we discovered: Monte Field came of a blue-blood New England family‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe kind that doesn‚Äôt brag about its Mayflower descendants. He had private tutoring as a kid, went to a swanky prep school, got through by the skin of his teeth and then was sent to Harvard by his father as a sort of last despairing gesture. He seems to have been a pretty bad egg even as a boy. Nothing criminal, but just wild. On the other hand, he must have had a grain of pride because when the blowup came he actually shortened his name. The family name was Fielding‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he became Monte Field.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Queen and Ellery nodded, Ellery‚Äôs eyes introspective, Queen staring steadily at Sampson.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúField,‚Äù resumed Sampson, ‚Äúwasn‚Äôt a total loss, understand. He had brains. He studied law brilliantly at Harvard. He seemed to have a flair for oratory that was considerably aided by his profound knowledge of legal technology. But just after his graduation, before his family could get even the bit of pleasure out of his scholastic career that should have been theirs, he was mixed up in a dirty deal with a girl. His father cut him off in jigtime. He was through‚ÅÝ‚Äîout‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôd disgraced the family name‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know the sort of thing.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, this friend of ours didn‚Äôt let grief overwhelm him, evidently. He made the best of being done out of a nice little legacy, and decided to go out and make some money on his own. How he managed to get along during this period we couldn‚Äôt find out, but the next thing we hear of him is that he has formed a partnership with a fellow by the name of Cohen. One of the smoothest shysters in the business. What a partnership that was! They cleaned up a fortune between them by establishing a select clientele chosen from among the biggest crooks in crookdom. Now, you know as well as I just how hard it is to ‚Äòget‚Äô anything on a bird who knows more about the loopholes of the law than the Supreme Court judges. They got away with everything‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was a golden era for crime. Crooks considered themselves top-notch when Cohen¬Ý&amp; Field were kind enough to defend them.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCohen, who was the experienced man of the combination, knowing the ropes, making the ‚Äòcontacts‚Äô with the firm‚Äôs clients, fixing the fees‚ÅÝ‚Äîand he could do that beautifully in spite of his inability to speak untainted English‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝCohen, I say, met a very sad end one winter night on the North River waterfront. He was found shot through the head, and although it‚Äôs twelve years since the happy event, the murderer is still unknown. That is‚ÅÝ‚Äîunknown in the legal sense. We had grave suspicions as to his identity. I shouldn‚Äôt be at all surprised if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝField‚Äôs demise this evening removed the Cohen case from the register.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo that‚Äôs the kind of playboy he was,‚Äù murmured Ellery. ‚ÄúEven in death his face is most disagreeable. Too bad I had to lose my first-edition on his account.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúForget it, you bookworm,‚Äù growled his father. ‚ÄúGo on, Henry.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNow,‚Äù said Sampson, taking the last piece of cake from the desk and munching it heartily, ‚Äúnow we come to a bright spot in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝField‚Äôs life. For after the unfortunate decease of his partner, he seemed to turn over a new leaf. He actually went to work‚ÅÝ‚Äîreal legal work‚ÅÝ‚Äîand of course he had the brains to pull it through. For a number of years he worked alone, gradually effacing the bad reputation he had built up in the profession and even gaining a little respect now and then from some of our hoity-toity legal lights.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis period of apparent good behavior lasted for six years. Then he met Ben Morgan‚ÅÝ‚Äîa solid man with a spotless record and a good reputation, although perhaps lacking the vital spark which makes the great lawyer. Somehow Field persuaded Morgan to join him in partnership. Then things began to hum.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôll remember that in that period some highly shady things were happening in New York. We got faint inklings of a gigantic criminal ring, composed of ‚Äòfences,‚Äô crooks, lawyers, and in some cases politicians. Some smashing big robberies were pulled off; bootlegging got to be a distinct art in the city environs; and a number of daring holdups resulting in murder put the department on its toes. But you know that as well as I do. You fellows ‚Äògot‚Äô some of them; but you never broke the ring, and you never reached the men higher up. And I have every reason to believe that our late friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMonte Field was the brains behind the whole business.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSee how easy it was for a man of his talents. Under the tutelage of Cohen, his first partner, he had become thoroughly familiar with the underworld moguls. When Cohen outlived his usefulness, he was conveniently bumped off. Then Field‚ÅÝ‚Äîremember, I am working now on speculation chiefly, because the evidence is practically nil‚ÅÝ‚Äîthen Field, under the cloak of a respectable legal business, absolutely aboveboard, quietly built up a far-flung criminal organization. How he accomplished this we have no way of knowing, of course. When he was quite ready to shoot the works, he tied up with a well-known respectable partner, Morgan, and now secure in his legal position, began to engineer most of the big crooked deals pulled off in the last five years or so.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere does Morgan come in?‚Äù asked Ellery idly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI was coming to that. Morgan, we have every reason to believe, was absolutely innocent of any connection with Field‚Äôs undercover operations. He was as straight as a die and in fact had often refused cases in which the defendant was a shady character. Their relations must have become strained when Morgan got a hint of what was going on. Whether this is so or not I don‚Äôt know‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou could easily find out from Morgan himself. Anyway, they broke up. Since the dissolution, Field has operated a little more in the open, but still not a shred of tangible evidence which would count in a court of law.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPardon me for interrupting, Henry,‚Äù said Queen reflectively, ‚Äúbut can‚Äôt you give me a little more information on their breakup? I‚Äôd like to use it as a check on Morgan when I talk to him again.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, yes!‚Äù replied Sampson grimly. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm glad you reminded me. Before the last word was written in the dissolving of the partnership, the two men had a terrific blowup which almost resulted in tragedy. At the Webster Club, where they were lunching, they were heard quarreling violently. The argument increased until it was necessary for the bystanders to interfere. Morgan was beside himself with rage and actually threatened Field‚Äôs life right then and there. Field, I understand, was quite calm.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid any of the witnesses get an inkling of the cause of the quarrel?‚Äù asked Queen.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUnfortunately, no. The thing blew over soon enough; they dissolved quietly and that was the last anybody ever heard of it. Until, of course, tonight.‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was a pregnant silence when the District Attorney stopped talking. Ellery whistled a few bars of a Schubert air, while Queen frankly took a pinch of snuff with a ferocious vigor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôd say, offhand,‚Äù murmured Ellery, looking off into space, ‚Äúthat <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMorgan is in deucedly hot water.‚Äù</p>
			<p>His father grunted. Sampson said seriously, ‚ÄúWell, that‚Äôs your affair, gentlemen. I know what my job is. Now that Field is out of the way, I‚Äôm going to have his files and records gone over with a fine-comb. If nothing else, his murder will accomplish eventually, I hope, the complete annihilation of his gang. I‚Äôll have a man at his office in the morning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne of my men is camping there already,‚Äù remarked Queen absently. ‚ÄúSo you think it‚Äôs Morgan, do you?‚Äù he asked Ellery, with a flash of his eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI seem to recall making a remark a minute ago,‚Äù said Ellery calmly, ‚Äúto the effect that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMorgan is in hot water. I did not commit myself further. I admit that Morgan seems to be the logical man.‚ÅÝ‚ÄîExcept, gentlemen, for one thing,‚Äù he added.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe hat,‚Äù said Inspector Queen instantly.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<em>No</em>,‚Äù said Ellery, ‚Äú<em>the other hat.</em>‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
