<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">In Which the Past Casts a Shadow</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The telephone bell tinkled.</p>
			<p>“Q? Sampson speaking,” came the District Attorney’s voice over the wire.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Henry,” said Queen. “Where are you and how do you feel this morning?”</p>
			<p>“I’m at the office and I feel rotten,” returned Sampson, chuckling. “The doctor insists I’ll be a corpse if I keep this up and the office insists the City will go under unless I attend to business. So what’s a feller to do?⁠ ⁠… I say, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:surname">Q.</abbr>”</p>
			<p>The Inspector winked at Ellery across the table, as if to say, “I know what’s coming!”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Henry?”</p>
			<p>“There’s a gentleman in my private office whom I think it would be greatly to your advantage to meet,” continued Sampson in a subdued tone. “He wants to see you and I’m afraid you’ll have to chuck whatever you’re doing and hotfoot it up here. He”⁠—Sampson’s voice became a whisper⁠—“he’s a man I can’t afford to antagonize unnecessarily, Q, old boy.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector frowned. “I suppose you’re referring to Ives-Pope,” he said. “Riled, is he, because we questioned the apple of his eye last night?”</p>
			<p>“Not exactly,” said Sampson. “He’s really a decent old chap. Just⁠—er⁠—just be nice to him, Q, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll handle him with silk gloves,” chuckled the old man. “If it will ease your mind any I’ll drag my son along. He generally attends to our social obligations.”</p>
			<p>“That will be fine,” said Sampson gratefully.</p>
			<p>The Inspector turned to Ellery as he hung up. “Poor Henry’s in something of a mess,” he said quizzically, “and I can’t say I blame him for trying to please. Sick as a dog and the politicians hopping on him, this Croesus howling in his front office.⁠ ⁠… Come along, son, we’re going to meet the celebrated Franklin Ives-Pope!”</p>
			<p>Ellery groaned, stretching his arms. “You’ll have another sick man on your hands if this continues.” Nevertheless he jumped up and clamped his hat on his head. “Let’s look over this captain of industry.”</p>
			<p>Queen grinned at Velie. “Before I forget, Thomas.⁠ ⁠… I want you to do a bit of sleuthing today. Your job is to find out why Monte Field, who did a rushing legal business and lived in princely style, had only six thousand dollars in his personal account. It’s probably Wall Street and the racetrack but I want you to make sure. You might learn something from the cancelled vouchers⁠—Lewin down at Field’s office could help you there.⁠ ⁠… And while you’re at it⁠—this might be extremely important, Thomas⁠—get a complete lineup on Field’s movements all day yesterday.”</p>
			<p>The two Queens departed for Sampson’s headquarters.</p>
			<p>The office of the District Attorney was a busy place and even an Inspector of Detectives was treated with scant ceremony in the sacred chambers. Ellery was wroth, and his father smiled, and finally the District Attorney himself came rushing out of his sanctum with a word of displeasure to the clerk who had allowed his friends to cool their heels on a hard bench.</p>
			<p>“Watch your throat, young man,” warned Queen, as Sampson led the way to his office, muttering maledictions on the head of the offender. “Are you sure I look all right to meet the money-mogul?”</p>
			<p>Sampson held the door open. The two Queens on the threshold saw a man, hands clasped behind his back, looking through the window on the uninteresting vista outside. As the District Attorney closed the door the occupant of the room wheeled about with astonishing agility for a man of his weight.</p>
			<p>Franklin Ives-Pope was a relic of more virile financial days. He resembled the strong self-assertive type of magnate who like old Cornelius Vanderbilt had dominated Wall Street as much by force of personality as by extent of wealth. Ives-Pope had clear grey eyes, iron-grey hair, a grizzled mustache, a husky body still springy with youth and an air of authority unmistakably masterful. Standing against the light of the dingy window, he was a most impressive figure of a man and Ellery and Queen, stepping forward, realized at once that here was an individual whose intelligence required no patronage.</p>
			<p>The financier spoke in a deep pleasant voice even before Sampson, slightly embarrassed, could make the introduction. “I suppose you’re Queen, the man-hunter,” he said. “I’ve been anxious to meet you for a long time, Inspector.” He offered a large square hand, which Queen took with dignity.</p>
			<p>“It would be unnecessary for me to echo that statement, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope,” he said, smiling a little. “Once I took a flyer in Wall Street and I think you’ve got some of my money.⁠—This, sir, is my son Ellery, who is the brains and beauty of the Queen family.”</p>
			<p>The big man’s eyes measured Ellery’s bulk appreciatively. He shook hands, saying, “You’ve got a smart father there, son!”</p>
			<p>“Well!” sighed the District Attorney, setting three chairs. “I’m glad that’s over. You haven’t the slightest idea, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope, how nervous I’ve been about this meeting. Queen is the devil himself when it comes to the social amenities, and I shouldn’t have been surprised if he had clapped his handcuffs on you as you shook hands!”</p>
			<p>The tension snapped with the big man’s hearty chuckle.</p>
			<p>The District Attorney came abruptly to the point. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope is here, Q, to find out for himself just what can be done in the matter of his daughter.” Queen nodded. Sampson turned to the financier. “As I told you before, sir, we have every confidence in Inspector Queen⁠—always have had. He generally works without any check or supervision from the District Attorney’s office. In view of the circumstances, I thought I should make that clear.”</p>
			<p>“That’s a sane method, Sampson,” said Ives-Pope, with approval. “I’ve always worked on that principle in my own business. Besides, from what I’ve heard about Inspector Queen, your confidence is well placed.”</p>
			<p>“Sometimes,” said Queen gravely, “I have to do things that go against the grain. I will be frank to say that some things I did last night in the line of duty were extremely disagreeable to me. I suppose, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope, your daughter is upset because of our little talk last night?”</p>
			<p>Ives-Pope was silent for a moment. Then he raised his head and met the Inspector’s gaze squarely. “Look here, Inspector,” he said. “We’re both men of the world and men of business. We’ve had dealings with all sorts of queer people, both of us; and we have, too, solved problems that presented enormous difficulties to others. So I think we can converse frankly.⁠ ⁠… Yes, my daughter Frances is more than a little upset. Incidentally, so is her mother, who is an ill woman at the best of times; and her brother Stanford, my son⁠—but we needn’t go into that.⁠ ⁠… Frances told me last night when she got home with⁠—her friends⁠—everything that happened. I know my daughter, Inspector; and I’d stake my fortune that there isn’t the slightest connection between her and Field.”</p>
			<p>“My dear sir,” returned the Inspector quietly, “I didn’t accuse her of anything. Nobody knows better than I what peculiar things can happen in the course of a criminal investigation; therefore I never let the slightest blind spot escape my notice. All I did was to ask her to identify the bag. When she did so, I told her where it was found. I was waiting, of course, for an explanation. It did not come.⁠ ⁠… You must understand, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope, that when a man is murdered and a woman’s bag is found in his pocket it is the duty of the police to discover the owner of the bag and his or her connection with the crime. But of course⁠—I do not have to convince you of that.”</p>
			<p>The magnate drummed on the arm of his chair. “I see your point of view, Inspector,” he said. “It was obviously your duty, and it is still your duty to go to the bottom of the thing. In fact, I want you to make every effort to. My own personal opinion is that she is the victim of circumstances. But I don’t want to plead her case. I trust you sufficiently to rely on your judgment after you’ve thoroughly probed the problem.” He paused. “Inspector Queen, how would you like to have me arrange a little interview at my home tomorrow morning? I would not ask you to go to this trouble,” he added apologetically, “except that Frances is quite ill, and her mother insists she stay at home. May we expect you?”</p>
			<p>“Very good of you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives-Pope,” remarked Queen calmly. “We’ll be there.”</p>
			<p>The financier seemed indisposed to end the interview. He shifted heavily in his chair. “I’ve always been a fair man, Inspector,” he said. “I feel somehow that I may be accused of using my position as a means of securing special privileges. That is not so. The shock of your tactics last night made it impossible for Frances to tell her story. At home, among the members of her family, I am sure she will be able to clear up her connection with the affair to your satisfaction.” He hesitated for a moment, then continued in a colder tone. “Her fiancé will be there and perhaps his presence will help to calm her.” His voice expressed the thought that he personally did not think so. “May we expect you, let us say, at ten-thirty?”</p>
			<p>“That will be fine,” said Queen, nodding. “I should like to know more definitely, sir, just who will be present.”</p>
			<p>“I can arrange it as you wish, Inspector,” replied Ives-Pope, “but I imagine <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives-Pope will want to be there and I know that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barry will⁠—my future son-in-law,” he explained dryly. “Perhaps a few of Frances’ friends⁠—theatrical friends. My son Stanford may also grace us with his presence⁠—a very busy young man, you know,” he added with a suspicion of bitterness.</p>
			<p>The three men shifted embarrassedly. Ives-Pope rose with a sigh and Ellery, Queen and Sampson followed suit. “That’s all, I think, Inspector,” said the financier in a lighter tone. “Is there anything else I can do?”</p>
			<p>“Not a thing.”</p>
			<p>“Then I’ll be getting along.” Ives-Pope turned to Ellery and Sampson. “Of course, Sampson, if you can get away, I’d like you to be there. Do you think you can make it?” The District Attorney nodded. “And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Queen”⁠—the big man turned to Ellery⁠—“will you come also? I understand that you have been following the investigation very closely at your father’s side. We shall be happy to have you.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll be there,” said Ellery softly, and Ives-Pope left the office.</p>
			<p>“Well, what do you think, Q?” asked Sampson, fidgeting in his swivel-chair.</p>
			<p>“A most interesting man,” returned the Inspector. “How fair-minded he is!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes⁠—yes,” said Sampson. “Er⁠—Q, he asked me before you came if you wouldn’t go easy on the publicity. Sort of special favor, you know.”</p>
			<p>“He didn’t have the nerve to come out with it to me, eh?” chuckled the Inspector. “He’s quite human.⁠ ⁠… Well, Henry, I’ll do my best, but if that young woman is implicated seriously, I won’t vouch for hands off with the press.”</p>
			<p>“All right, all right, Q⁠—it’s up to you,” said Sampson irritably. “Damn this throat of mine!” He took an atomizer from a desk-drawer and sprinkled his throat wryly.</p>
			<p>“Didn’t Ives-Pope recently donate a hundred thousand dollars to the Chemical Research Foundation?” asked Ellery suddenly, turning to Sampson.</p>
			<p>“I seem to remember something of that sort,” said Sampson, gargling. “Why?”</p>
			<p>Ellery mumbled an inaudible explanation that was lost in Sampson’s violent gyrations with the sprayer. Queen, who was regarding his son speculatively, shook his head, consulted his watch and said, “Well, son, it’s time we knocked off for lunch. What do you say⁠—Henry, think you’d like to join us in a bite?”</p>
			<p>Sampson grinned with an effort. “I’m full up to my neck with work, but even a District Attorney has to eat,” he said. “I’ll go on only one condition⁠—that I pay the check. I owe you something, anyway.”</p>
			<p>As they donned their coats Queen picked up Sampson’s telephone.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Morgan?⁠ ⁠… Oh, hello, Morgan. I say, do you think you can find a little time this afternoon for a chat?⁠ ⁠… Right. Two-thirty will be fine. Goodbye.”</p>
			<p>“That settles that,” said the Inspector comfortably. “Always pays to be polite, Ellery⁠—remember that.”</p>
			<p>At two-thirty promptly the two Queens were ushered into the quiet law-office of Benjamin Morgan. It was noticeably different from Field’s lavish suite⁠—richly furnished but with a more businesslike simplicity. A smiling young woman closed the door after them. Morgan greeted them with some reserve. He held out a box of cigars as they sat down.</p>
			<p>“No thanks⁠—my snuff will do,” said the Inspector genially, while Ellery after being introduced lit a cigarette and blew smoke-rings. Morgan lit a cigar with shaking fingers.</p>
			<p>“I suppose you’re here to continue that talk of ours last night, Inspector?” said Morgan.</p>
			<p>Queen sneezed, replaced his snuffbox, and leaned back in the chair. “Look here, Morgan old man,” he said evenly. “You haven’t been quite on the up-and-up with me.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?” asked Morgan, coloring.</p>
			<p>“You told me last night,” said the Inspector reflectively, “you told me last night that you parted amicably with Field two years ago, when you dissolved the firm of Field &amp; Morgan. Did you say that?”</p>
			<p>“I did,” said Morgan.</p>
			<p>“How, then, my dear fellow,” asked Queen, “do you explain the little incident of the quarrel at the Webster Club? I certainly would not call a threat against another man’s life an ‘amicable’ way of dissolving a partnership!”</p>
			<p>Morgan sat quietly for several minutes while Queen stared patiently at him and Ellery sighed. Then he looked up and began to speak in a passionate undertone.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry, Inspector,” he muttered, glancing away. “I might have known that a threat like that would be remembered by somebody.⁠ ⁠… Yes, it’s true enough. We had lunch one day in the Webster Club at Field’s suggestion. As far as I was concerned, the less I had to do with him socially the better I liked it. But the purpose of the luncheon was to go over some last details of the dissolution, and of course I had no choice.⁠ ⁠… I’m afraid I lost my temper. I did make a threat against his life, but it was⁠—well, it was said in the heat of an angry moment. I forgot the whole thing before the week was over.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector nodded sagely. “Yes, things do happen like that sometimes. But”⁠—and Morgan licked his lips in despairing anticipation⁠—“a man doesn’t threaten another man’s life, even if he doesn’t mean it, merely over a matter of business detail.” He leveled his finger at Morgan’s shrinking body. “Come on now, man⁠—out with it. What are you holding back?”</p>
			<p>Morgan’s entire body had gone flaccid. His lips were ashy as he turned from one Queen to the other, mute appeal in his eyes. But their glances were inexorable and Ellery, who was regarding him much as a vivisectionist regards a guinea-pig, interrupted.</p>
			<p>“My dear Morgan,” he said coldly, “Field had something on you, and he thought that that was a good time to tell you about it. It’s as obvious as the red in your eye.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve guessed it in part, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Queen. I’ve been one of the most unfortunate men God ever created. That devil Field⁠—whoever killed him deserves to be decorated for his service to humanity. He was an octopus⁠—a soulless beast in human form. I can’t tell you how happy⁠—yes, happy!⁠—I am that he is dead!”</p>
			<p>“Softly there, Morgan,” said Queen. “Although I gather our mutual friend was a good deal of a skunk, your remarks might be overheard by a less sympathetic audience. And⁠—?”</p>
			<p>“Here’s the whole story,” mumbled Morgan, his eyes fixed on the desk-blotter. “It’s a hard one to tell.⁠ ⁠… When I was a kid at college I got into some trouble with a girl⁠—a waitress in the college restaurant. She was not bad⁠—just weak, and I suppose I was wild in those days. At any rate she had a child⁠—my child.⁠ ⁠… I suppose you know that I come from a straitlaced family. If you don’t, you would find out soon enough on investigation. They had great plans for me, they were socially ambitious⁠—to cut it short, I couldn’t very well marry the girl and bring her to father’s house as my wife. It was a caddish thing to do.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He paused.</p>
			<p>“But it was done, and that’s all that matters. I’ve⁠—I’ve always loved her. She was sensible enough about the arrangements.⁠ ⁠… I managed to provide for her out of my generous allowance. No one⁠—I’ll swear not a soul in this world with the exception of her widowed mother, a fine old lady⁠—knew about the affair. I’ll swear to that, I say. And yet⁠—” His fist clenched, but he resumed with a sigh. “Eventually, I married the girl whom my family had selected for me.” There was a painful silence as he stopped to clear his throat. “It was a <i lang="fr">mariage de convenance</i>⁠—just that and nothing more. She came from an old aristocratic family, and I had the money. We have lived fairly happily together.⁠ ⁠… Then I met Field. I curse the day I ever consented to go into partnership with him⁠—but my own business was not exactly all it might have been and Field, if nothing else, was an aggressive and clever lawyer.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector took a pinch of snuff.</p>
			<p>“Everything went smoothly at first,” continued Morgan in the same low tone. “But by degrees I began to suspect that my partner was not everything he should have been. Queer clients⁠—queer clients indeed⁠—would enter his private office after hours; he would evade my questions about them; things began to look peculiar. Finally I decided my own reputation would suffer if I continued to be linked with the man, and I broached the subject of dissolution. Field objected strenuously, but I was stubborn and after all he could not dominate my desires. We dissolved.”</p>
			<p>Ellery’s fingers tapped an absent tattoo on the handle of his stick.</p>
			<p>“Then the affair at the Webster. He insisted we have lunch together for the settlement of the last few details. That wasn’t his purpose at all, of course. You can guess, I suppose, his intentions.⁠ ⁠… He came out quite suavely with the overwhelming statement that he knew I was supporting a woman and my illegitimate child. He said that he had some of my letters to prove it, and a number of cancelled vouchers of checks I had sent her.⁠ ⁠… He admitted he had stolen them from me. I hadn’t looked at them for years, of course.⁠ ⁠… Then he blandly announced that he meant to make capital out of this evidence!”</p>
			<p>“Blackmail!” muttered Ellery, a light creeping into his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Yes, blackmail,” retorted Morgan bitterly. “Nothing less. He described in very graphic terms what would happen if the story should come out. Oh, Field was a clever crook! I saw the entire structure of social position I had built up⁠—a process which took years⁠—destroyed in an instant. My wife, her family, my own family⁠—and more than that, the circle in which we moved⁠—I shouldn’t have been able to lift my head out of the muck. And as for business⁠—well, it doesn’t take much to make important clients go elsewhere for their legal work. I was trapped⁠—I knew it and he knew it.”</p>
			<p>“Just how much did he want, Morgan?” asked Queen.</p>
			<p>“Enough! He wanted twenty-five thousand dollars⁠—just to keep quiet. I didn’t even have any assurances that the affair would end there. I was caught and caught properly. Because, remember, this was not an affair which had died years before. I was still supporting that poor woman and my son. I am supporting them now. I will⁠—continue to support them.” He stared at his fingernails.</p>
			<p>“I paid the money,” he resumed morosely. “It meant stretching a bit, but I paid it. But the harm was done. I saw red there at the Club, and⁠—but you know what happened.”</p>
			<p>“And this blackmail has continued all the while, Morgan?” asked the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir⁠—for two solid years. The man was insatiable, I tell you! Even today I can’t completely understand it. He must have been earning tremendous fees in his own practice, and yet he always seemed to be needing money. No small change, either⁠—I have never paid him less than ten thousand dollars at one time!”</p>
			<p>Queen and Ellery looked at each other fleetingly. Queen said, “Well, Morgan, it’s a pretty kettle of fish. The more I hear about Field the more I dislike putting the irons on the fellow who did away with him. However! In the light of what you’ve told me, your statement last night that you hadn’t seen Field for two years is patently untrue. When <em>did</em> you see him last?”</p>
			<p>Morgan appeared to be racking his memory. “Oh, it was about two months ago, Inspector,” he said at last.</p>
			<p>The Inspector shifted in his chair. “I see.⁠ ⁠… I’m sorry you didn’t tell me all this last night. You understand, of course, that your story is perfectly safe with the police. And it’s mighty vital information. Now then⁠—do you happen to know a woman by the name of Angela Russo?”</p>
			<p>Morgan stared. “Why, no, Inspector. I’ve never heard of her.”</p>
			<p>Queen was silent for a moment. “Do you know a gentleman called ‘Parson Johnny’?”</p>
			<p>“I think I can give you some information there, Inspector. I’m certain that during our partnership Field was using the little thug for some shady business of his own. I caught him sneaking up into the office a number of times after hours, and when I asked Field about him, he would sneer and say, ‘Oh, that’s only Parson Johnny, a friend of mine!’ But it was sufficient to establish the man’s identity. What their connection was I can’t tell you, because I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, Morgan,” said the Inspector. “I’m glad you told me that. And now⁠—one last question. Have you ever heard the name Charles Michaels?”</p>
			<p>“To be sure I have,” responded Morgan grimly. “Michaels was Field’s so-called valet⁠—he acted in the capacity of bodyguard and was really a blackguard, or I’m greatly mistaken in my judgment of men. He came to the office once in a while. I can’t think of anything else about him, Inspector.”</p>
			<p>“He knows you, of course?” asked Queen.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—I suppose so,” returned Morgan doubtfully. “I never spoke to him, but undoubtedly he saw me during his visits to the office.”</p>
			<p>“Well, now, that’s fine, Morgan,” grunted Queen, rising. “This has been a most interesting and informative chat. And⁠—no, I don’t think there’s anything else. That is, at the moment. Just ride along, Morgan, and keep in town⁠—available if we need you for anything. Remember that, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I’m not likely to forget it,” said Morgan dully. “And⁠—of course the story I told you⁠—about my son⁠—it won’t come out?”</p>
			<p>“You needn’t have the slightest fear⁠—about that, Morgan,” said Queen, and a few moments later he and Ellery were on the sidewalk.</p>
			<p>“So it was blackmail, dad,” murmured Ellery. “That gives me an idea, do you know?”</p>
			<p>“Well, son, I’ve a few ideas of my own!” chuckled Queen, and in a telepathic silence they walked briskly down the street in the direction of headquarters.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
