<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>II: In Which One Queen Works and Another Queen Watches</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">In Which One Queen Works and Another Queen Watches</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>There was nothing remarkable in either the physique or the manner of Inspector Richard Queen. He was a small, withered, rather mild-appearing old gentleman. He walked with a little stoop and an air of deliberation that somehow accorded perfectly with his thick grey hair and mustaches, veiled grey eyes and slender hands.</p>
			<p>As he crossed the carpet with short, quick steps Inspector Queen was far from impressive to the milling eyes that observed his approach from every side. And yet, so unusual was the gentle dignity of his appearance, so harmless and benevolent the smile that illumined his lined old face, that an audible rustle swept over the auditorium, preceding him in a strangely fitting manner.</p>
			<p>In his own men the change was appreciable. Doyle retreated into a corner near the left exits. Detective-Sergeant Velie, poised over the body⁠—sardonic, cold, untouched by the near-hysteria about him⁠—relaxed a trifle, as if he were satisfied to relinquish his place in the sun. The bluecoats guarding the aisles saluted with alacrity. The nervous, muttering, angry audience sank back with an unreasoning relief.</p>
			<p>Inspector Queen stepped forward and shook hands with Velie.</p>
			<p>“Too bad, Thomas, my boy. I hear you were going home when this happened,” he murmured. To Doyle he smiled in a fatherly fashion. Then, in a mild pity, he peered down at the man on the floor. “Thomas,” he asked, “are all the exits covered?” Velie nodded.</p>
			<p>The old man turned back and let his eyes travel interestedly about the scene. He asked a low-voiced question of Velie, who nodded his head in assent; then he crooked his finger at Doyle.</p>
			<p>“Doyle, where are the people who were sitting in these seats?” He pointed to three chairs adjoining the dead man’s and four directly to the front of them in the preceding row.</p>
			<p>The policeman appeared puzzled. “Didn’t see anybody there, Inspector.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Queen stood silent for a moment, then waved Doyle back with the low remark to Velie, “In a crowded house, too.⁠ ⁠… Remember that.” Velie raised his eyebrows gravely. “I’m cold on this whole business,” continued the Inspector genially. “All I can see right now are a dead man and a lot of perspiring people making noise. Have Hesse and Piggott direct traffic for a while, eh, son?”</p>
			<p>Velie spoke sharply to two of the plainclothes men who had entered the theatre with the Inspector. They wriggled their way toward the rear and the people who had been crowding around found themselves pushed aside. Policemen joined the two detectives. The group of actors and actresses were ordered to move back. A section was roped off behind the central tier of seats and some fifty men and women packed into the small space. Quiet men circulated among them, instructing them to show their tickets and return to their seats one by one. Within five minutes not a member of the audience was left standing. The actors were cautioned to remain within the roped enclosure for the time being.</p>
			<p>In the extreme left aisle Inspector Queen reached into his topcoat pocket, carefully extracted a brown carved snuffbox and took a pinch with every evidence of enjoyment.</p>
			<p>“That’s more like it, Thomas,” he chuckled. “You know how fussy I am about noises.⁠ ⁠… Who is the poor chap on the floor⁠—do you know?”</p>
			<p>Velie shook his head. “I haven’t even touched the body, Inspector,” he said. “I got here just a few minutes before you did. A man on the 47th Street beat called me up from his box and reported Doyle’s whistle. Doyle seems to have been doing things, sir.⁠ ⁠… His lieutenant reports favorably on his record.”</p>
			<p>“Ah,” said the Inspector, “ah, yes. Doyle. Come here, Doyle.”</p>
			<p>The policeman stepped forward and saluted.</p>
			<p>“Just what,” went on the little grey man, leaning comfortably against a seat-back, “just what happened here, Doyle?”</p>
			<p>“All I know about it, Inspector,” began Doyle, “is that a couple of minutes before the end of the second act this man”⁠—he pointed to Pusak, who stood wretchedly in a corner⁠—“came running up to me where I was standin’ in the back, watchin’ the show, and he says, ‘A man’s been murdered, officer!⁠ ⁠… A man’s murdered!’ He was blubberin’ like a baby and I thought he was pie-eyed. But I stepped mighty quick and came over here⁠—the place was dark and there was a lot of shootin’ and screamin’ on the stage⁠—and I took a look at the feller on the floor. I didn’t move him, but I felt his heart and there wasn’t anything to feel. To make sure he was croaked I asked for a doctor and a gent by the name of Stuttgard answered my call.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Inspector Queen stood pertly, his head cocked on a side like a parrot’s. “That’s excellent,” he said. “Excellent, Doyle. I’ll question <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stuttgard later. Then what happened?” he went on.</p>
			<p>“Then,” continued the policeman, “then I got the usherette on this aisle to beat it back to the manager’s office for Panzer. Louis Panzer⁠—that’s the manager right over there.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Queen regarded Panzer, who was standing a few feet to the rear talking to Neilson, and nodded. “That’s Panzer, you say. All right, all right.⁠ ⁠… Ellery! You got my message?”</p>
			<p>He darted forward, brushing aside Panzer, who fell back apologetically, and clapped the shoulder of a tall young man who had slipped through the main door and was slowly looking about the scene. The old man passed his arm through the younger man’s.</p>
			<p>“Haven’t inconvenienced you any, son? What bookstore did you haunt tonight? Ellery, I’m mighty glad you’re here!”</p>
			<p>He dipped into his pocket, again extracted the snuffbox, sniffed deeply⁠—so deeply that he sneezed⁠—and looked up into his son’s face.</p>
			<p>“As a matter of fact,” said Ellery Queen, his eyes restlessly roving, “I can’t return the compliment. You just lured me away from a perfect booklover’s paradise. I was at the point of getting the dealer to let me have a priceless Falconer first-edition, intending to borrow the money from you at headquarters. I telephoned⁠—and here I am. A Falconer⁠—Oh, well. Tomorrow will do, I suppose.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector chuckled. “Now if you told me you were picking up an old snuffbox I might be interested. As it is⁠—trot along. Looks as if we have some work tonight.”</p>
			<p>They walked toward the little knot of men on the left, the old man’s hand grasping his son’s coat-sleeve. Ellery Queen towered six inches above his father’s head. There was a square cut to his shoulders and an agreeable swing to his body as he walked. He was dressed in oxford grey and carried a light stick. On his nose perched what seemed an incongruous note in so athletic a man⁠—a rimless pince-nez. But the brow above, the long delicate lines of the face, the bright eyes were those of a man of thought rather than action.</p>
			<p>They joined the group at the body. Ellery was greeted respectfully by Velie. He bent over the seat, glanced earnestly at the dead man, and stepped back.</p>
			<p>“Go on, Doyle,” said the Inspector briskly. “You looked at the body, detained the man who found it, got the manager.⁠ ⁠… Then what?”</p>
			<p>“Panzer at my orders closed all the doors at once and saw that no one either came in or went out,” answered Doyle. “There was a lot of fuss here with the audience, but nothing else happened.”</p>
			<p>“Right, right!” said the Inspector, feeling for his snuffbox. “You did a mighty good job. Now⁠—That gentleman there.”</p>
			<p>He gestured in the direction of the trembling little man in the corner, who stepped forward hesitantly, licked his lips, looked about him with a helpless expression, and then stood silent.</p>
			<p>“What’s your name?” asked the Inspector, in a kindly tone.</p>
			<p>“Pusak⁠—William Pusak,” said the man. “I’m a bookkeeper, sir. I was just⁠—”</p>
			<p>“One at a time, Pusak. Where were you sitting?”</p>
			<p>Pusak pointed eagerly to the sixth seat from the aisle, in the last row. A frightened young girl in the fifth seat sat staring in their direction.</p>
			<p>“I see,” said the Inspector. “Is that young lady with you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir⁠—yes, sir. That’s my fiancée, sir. Her name is Esther⁠—Esther Jablow.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>A little to the rear a detective was scribbling in a notebook. Ellery stood behind his father, glancing from one exit to another. He began to draw a diagram on the flyleaf of a small book he had taken from his topcoat pocket.</p>
			<p>The Inspector scrutinized the girl, who immediately averted her eyes. “Now, Pusak, I want you to tell me just what happened.”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—I didn’t do a thing out of the way, sir.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Queen patted his arm. “Nobody is accusing you of anything, Pusak. All I want is your story of what happened. Take your time⁠—tell it your own way.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Pusak gave him a curious glance. Then he moistened his lips and began. “Well, I was sitting there in that seat with my⁠—with Miss Jablow⁠—and we were enjoying the show pretty much. The second act was kind of exciting⁠—there was a lot of shooting and yelling on the stage⁠—and then I got up and started to go out the row to the aisle. This aisle⁠—here.” He pointed nervously to the spot of carpet on which he was standing. Queen nodded, his face benign.</p>
			<p>“I had to push past my⁠—Miss Jablow, and there wasn’t anybody except one man between her and the aisle. That’s why I went that way. I didn’t sort of like to”⁠—he hesitated apologetically⁠—“to bother people going out that way in the middle of the most exciting part.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“That was very decent of you, Pusak,” said the Inspector, smiling.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. So I walked down the row, feeling my way, because it was pretty dark in the theatre, and then I came to⁠—to this man.” He shuddered, and continued more rapidly. “He was sitting in a funny way, I thought. His knees were touching the seat in front of him and I couldn’t get past. I said, ‘I’m sorry,’ and tried again, but his knees hadn’t moved an inch. I didn’t know what to do, sir⁠—I’m not nervy, like some fellows, and I was going to turn around and go back when all of a sudden I felt the man’s body slip to the floor⁠—I was still pressed up close to him. Of course, I got kind of scared⁠—it was only natural.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“I should say,” said the Inspector, with concern. “It must have given you quite a turn. Then what happened?”</p>
			<p>“Well, sir.⁠ ⁠… Then, before I realized what was happening, he fell clean out of his seat and his head bumped against my legs. I didn’t know what to do. I couldn’t call for help⁠—I don’t know why, but I couldn’t, somehow⁠—and I just naturally bent over him, thinking he was drunk or sick or something, and meant to lift him up. I hadn’t figured on what I’d do after that.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“I know just how you felt, Pusak. Go on.”</p>
			<p>“Then it happened⁠—the thing I told this policeman about. I’d just got hold of his head when I felt his hand come up and grab mine, just like he was trying awfully hard to get a grip on something, and he moaned. It was so low I could hardly hear it, but⁠—but sort of horrible. I can’t quite describe it exactly.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Now we’re getting on,” said the Inspector. “And?”</p>
			<p>“And then he talked. It wasn’t really talking⁠—it was more like a gurgle, as if he was choking. He said a few words that I didn’t catch at all, but I realized that this was something different from just being sick or drunk, so I bent even lower and listened hard. I heard him gasp, ‘It’s murder.⁠ ⁠… Been murdered⁠ ⁠…’ or something like that.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“So he said, ‘It’s murder,’ eh?” The Inspector regarded Pusak with severity. “Well, now. That must have given you a shock, Pusak.” He snapped suddenly, “Are you certain this man said ‘murder’?”</p>
			<p>“That’s what I heard, sir. I’ve got good hearing,” said Pusak doggedly.</p>
			<p>“Well!” Queen relaxed, smiling again. “Of course. I just wanted to make sure. Then what did you do?”</p>
			<p>“Then I felt him squirm a little and all of a sudden go limp in my arms. I was afraid he’d died and I don’t know how⁠—but next thing I knew I was in the back telling it all to the policeman⁠—this policeman here.” He pointed to Doyle, who rocked on his heels impersonally.</p>
			<p>“And that’s all?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Yes, sir. That’s all I know about it,” said Pusak, with a sigh of relief.</p>
			<p>Queen grasped him by the coat front and barked, “That isn’t all, Pusak. You forgot to tell us why you left your seat in the first place!” He glared into the little man’s eyes.</p>
			<p>Pusak coughed, teetered back and forth a moment, as if uncertain of his next words, then leaned forward and whispered into the Inspector’s astonished ear.</p>
			<p>“Oh!” Queen’s lips twitched in the suspicion of a smile, but he said gravely, “I see, Pusak. Thank you very much for your help. Everything is all right now⁠—you may go back to your seat and leave with the others later on.” He waved his hand in a gesture of dismissal. Pusak, with a sickly glance at the dead man on the floor, crept around the rear wall of the last row and reappeared by the girl’s side. She immediately engaged him in a whispered but animated conversation.</p>
			<p>As the Inspector with a little smile turned to Velie, Ellery made a slight movement of impatience, opened his mouth to speak, appeared to reconsider, and finally moved quietly backwards, disappearing from view.</p>
			<p>“Well, Thomas,” sighed the Inspector, “let’s have a look at this chap.”</p>
			<p>He bent nimbly over the dead man, on his knees in the space between the last row and the row directly before it. Despite the brilliant sparkle of light from the fixtures overhead, the cramped space near the floor was dark. Velie produced a flashlight and stooped over the Inspector, keeping its bright beam on the corpse, shifting it as the Inspector’s hands roved about. Queen silently pointed to an ugly ragged brown stain on the otherwise immaculate shirtfront.</p>
			<p>“Blood?” grunted Velie.</p>
			<p>The Inspector sniffed the shirt cautiously. “Nothing more dangerous than whisky,” he retorted.</p>
			<p>He ran his hands swiftly over the body, feeling over the heart and at the neck, where the collar was loosened. He looked up at Velie.</p>
			<p>“Looks like a poisoning case, all right, Thomas. Get hold of this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stuttgard for me, will you? I’d like to have his professional opinion before Prouty gets here.”</p>
			<p>Velie snapped an order and a moment later a medium-sized man in evening clothes, olive-skinned and wearing a thin black mustache, came up behind a detective.</p>
			<p>“Here he is, Inspector,” said Velie.</p>
			<p>“Ah, yes.” Queen looked up from his examination. “How do you do, Doctor? I am informed that you examined the body almost immediately after it was discovered. I see no obvious sign of death⁠—what is your opinion?”</p>
			<p>“My examination was necessarily a cursory one,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stuttgard carefully, his fingers brushing a phantom speck from his satin lapel. “In the semi-dark and under these conditions I could not at first discern any abnormal sign of death. From the constriction of the facial muscles I thought that it was a simple case of heart failure, but on closer examination I noticed that blueness of the face⁠—it’s quite clear in this light, isn’t it? That combined with the alcoholic odor from the mouth seems to point to some form of alcoholic poisoning. Of one thing I can assure you⁠—this man did not die of a gunshot wound or a stab. I naturally made sure of that at once. I even examined his neck⁠—you see I loosened the collar⁠—to make sure it was not strangulation.”</p>
			<p>“I see.” The Inspector smiled. “Thank you very much, Doctor. Oh, by the way,” he added, as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stuttgard with a muttered word turned aside, “do you think this man might have died from the effects of wood alcohol?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stuttgard answered promptly. “Impossible,” he said. “It was something much more powerful and quick-acting.”</p>
			<p>“Could you put a name to the exact poison which killed this man?”</p>
			<p>The olive-skinned physician hesitated. Then he said stiffly, “I am very sorry, Inspector; you cannot reasonably expect me to be more precise. Under the circumstances.⁠ ⁠…” His voice trailed off, and he backed away.</p>
			<p>Queen chuckled as he bent again to his grim task.</p>
			<p>The dead man sprawled on the floor was not a pleasant sight. The Inspector gently lifted the clenched hand and stared hard at the contorted face. Then he looked under the seat. There was nothing there. However, a black silklined cape hung carelessly over the back of the chair. He emptied all of the pockets of both dress-suit and cape, his hands diving in and out of the clothing. He extracted a few letters and papers from the inside breast pocket, delved into the vest pockets and trouser-pockets, heaping his discoveries in two piles⁠—one containing papers and letters, the other coins, keys, and miscellaneous material. A silver flask initialed “<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">M. F.</abbr>” he found in one of the hip-pockets. He handled the flask gingerly, holding it by the neck, and scanning the gleaming surface as if for fingerprints. Shaking his head, he wrapped the flask with infinite care in a clean handkerchief, and placed it aside.</p>
			<p>A ticket stub colored blue and bearing the inscription “LL32 Left,” he secreted in his own vest pocket.</p>
			<p>Without pausing to examine any of the other objects individually, he ran his hands over the lining of the vest and coat, and made a rapid pass over the trouser-legs. Then, as he fingered the coattail pocket, he exclaimed in a low tone, “Well, well, Thomas⁠—here’s a pretty find!” as he extracted a woman’s evening bag, small, compact and glittering with rhinestones.</p>
			<p>He turned it over in his hands reflectively, then snapped it open, glanced through it and took out a number of feminine accessories. In a small compartment, nestling beside a lipstick, he found a tiny card-case. After a moment, he replaced all the contents and put the bag in his own pocket.</p>
			<p>The Inspector picked up the papers from the floor and swiftly glanced through them. He frowned as he came to the last one⁠—a letterhead.</p>
			<p>“Ever hear of Monte Field, Thomas?” he asked, looking up.</p>
			<p>Velie tightened his lips. “I’ll say I have. One of the crookedest lawyers in town.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector looked grave. “Well, Thomas, this is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Monte Field⁠—what’s left of him.” Velie grunted.</p>
			<p>“Where the average police system falls down,” came Ellery’s voice over his father’s shoulder, “is in its ruthless tracking down of gentlemen who dispose of such fungus as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Monte Field.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector straightened, dusted his knees carefully, took a pinch of snuff, and said, “Ellery, my boy, you’ll never make a policeman. I didn’t know you knew Field.”</p>
			<p>“I wasn’t exactly on terms of intimacy with the gentleman,” said Ellery. “But I remember having met him at the Pantheon Club, and from what I heard at the time I don’t wonder somebody has removed him from our midst.”</p>
			<p>“Let’s discuss the demerits of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Field at a more propitious time,” said the Inspector gravely. “I happen to know quite a bit about him, and none of it is pleasant.”</p>
			<p>He wheeled and was about to walk away when Ellery, gazing curiously at the dead body and the seat, drawled, “Has anything been removed, dad⁠—anything at all?”</p>
			<p>Inspector Queen turned his head. “And why do you ask that bright question, young man?”</p>
			<p>“Because,” returned Ellery, with a grimace, “unless my eyesight fails me, the chap’s tophat is not under the seat, on the floor beside him, or anywhere in the general vicinity.”</p>
			<p>“So you noticed that too, did you, Ellery?” said the Inspector grimly. “It’s the first thing I saw when I bent down to examine him⁠—or rather the first thing I didn’t see.” The Inspector seemed to lose his geniality as he spoke. His brow wrinkled and his grey mustache bristled fiercely. He shrugged his shoulders. “And no hat-check in his clothes, either.⁠ ⁠… Flint!”</p>
			<p>A husky young man in plain clothes hurried forward.</p>
			<p>“Flint, suppose you exercise those young muscles of yours by getting down on your hands and knees and hunting for a tophat. It ought to be somewhere around here.”</p>
			<p>“Right, Inspector,” said Flint cheerfully, and he began a methodical search of the indicated area.</p>
			<p>“Velie,” said Queen, in a businesslike tone, “suppose you find Ritter and Hesse and⁠—no, those two will do⁠—for me, will you?” Velie walked away.</p>
			<p>“Hagstrom!” shouted the Inspector to another detective standing by.</p>
			<p>“Yes, Chief.”</p>
			<p>“Get busy with this stuff”⁠—he pointed to the two small piles of articles he had taken from Field’s pockets and which lay on the floor⁠—“and be sure to put them safely away in my own bags.”</p>
			<p>As Hagstrom knelt by the body, Ellery quietly bent over and opened the coat. He immediately jotted a memorandum on the flyleaf of the book in which he had drawn a diagram some time before. He muttered to himself, patting the volume, “And it’s a Stendhause private edition, too!”</p>
			<p>Velie returned with Ritter and Hesse at his heels. The Inspector said sharply, “Ritter, go to this man’s apartment. His name is Monte Field, he was an attorney, and he lived at 113 West 75th Street. Stick around until you’re relieved. If anyone shows up, nab him.”</p>
			<p>Ritter, touching his hat, mumbled, “Yes, Inspector,” and turned away.</p>
			<p>“Now, Hesse, my lad,” continued the Inspector to the other detective, “hurry down to 51 Chambers Street, this man’s office, and wait there until you hear from me. Get inside if you can, otherwise park outside the door all night.”</p>
			<p>“Right, Inspector.” Hesse disappeared.</p>
			<p>Queen turned about and chuckled as he saw Ellery, broad shoulders bent over, examining the dead man.</p>
			<p>“Don’t trust your father, eh, Ellery?” the Inspector chided. “What are you snooping for?”</p>
			<p>Ellery smiled, straightening up. “I’m merely curious, that’s all,” he said. “There are certain things about this unsavory corpse that interest me hugely. For example, have you taken the man’s head measurement?” He held up a piece of string, which he had slipped from a wrapped book in his coat pocket, and offered it for his father’s inspection.</p>
			<p>The Inspector took it, scowled and summoned a policeman from the rear of the theatre. He issued a low-voiced order, the string exchanged hands and the policeman departed.</p>
			<p>“Inspector.”</p>
			<p>Queen looked up. Hagstrom stood by his elbow, eyes gleaming.</p>
			<p>“I found this pushed way back under Field’s seat when I picked up the papers. It was against the back wall.”</p>
			<p>He held up a dark-green bottle, of the kind used by ginger-ale manufacturers. A gaudy label read, “Paley’s Extra Dry Ginger Ale.” The bottle was half-empty.</p>
			<p>“Well, Hagstrom, you’ve got something up your sleeve. Out with it!” the Inspector said curtly.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir! When I found this bottle under the dead man’s seat, I knew that he had probably used it tonight. There was no matinee today and the cleaning-women go over the place every twenty-four hours. It wouldn’t have been there unless this man, or somebody connected with him, had used it and put it there tonight. I thought, ‘Maybe this is a clue,’ so I dug up the refreshment boy who had this section of the theatre and I asked him to sell me a bottle of ginger ale. He said”⁠—Hagstrom smiled⁠—“he said they don’t sell ginger ale in this theatre!”</p>
			<p>“You used your head that time, Hagstrom,” said the Inspector approvingly. “Get hold of the boy and bring him here.”</p>
			<p>As Hagstrom left, a stout little man in slightly disarranged evening clothes bustled up, a policeman doggedly holding his arm. The Inspector sighed.</p>
			<p>“Are you in charge of this affair, sir?” stormed the little man, drawing himself up to five feet two inches of perspiring flesh.</p>
			<p>“I am,” said Queen gravely.</p>
			<p>“Then I want you to know,” burst out the newcomer⁠—“here, you, let go of my arm, do you hear?⁠—I want you to know, sir.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Detach yourself from the gentleman’s arm, officer,” said the Inspector, with deepening gravity.</p>
			<p>“… that I consider this entire affair the most vicious outrage! I have been sitting here with my wife and daughter since the interruption to the play for almost an hour, and your officers refuse to allow us even to stand up. It’s a damnable outrage, sir! Do you think you can keep this entire audience waiting at your leisure? I’ve been watching you⁠—don’t think I haven’t. You’ve been dawdling around while we sat and suffered. I want you to know, sir⁠—I want you to know!⁠—that unless you permit my party to leave at once, I shall get in touch with my very good friend District Attorney Sampson and lodge a personal complaint against you!”</p>
			<p>Inspector Queen gazed distastefully into the empurpled face of the stout little man. He sighed and said with a note of sternness, “My dear man, has it occurred to you that at this moment, while you stand beefing about a little thing like being detained an hour or so, a person who has committed murder may be in this very audience⁠—perhaps sitting next to your wife and daughter? He is just as anxious as you are to get away. If you wish to make a complaint to the District Attorney, your very good friend, you may do so after you leave this theatre. Meanwhile, I’ll trouble you to return to your seat and be patient until you are permitted to go.⁠ ⁠… I hope I make myself clear.”</p>
			<p>A titter arose from some spectators nearby, who seemed to be enjoying the little man’s discomfiture. He flounced away, with the policeman stolidly following. The Inspector, muttering, “Jackass!” turned to Velie.</p>
			<p>“Take Panzer with you to the box-office and see if you can find complete tickets for these numbers.” He bent over the last row and the row before it, scribbling the numbers LL30 Left, LL28 Left, LL26 Left, KK32 Left, KK30 Left, KK28 Left, and KK26 Left on the back of an old envelope. He handed the memorandum to Velie, who went away.</p>
			<p>Ellery, who had been leaning idly against the rear wall of the last row, watching his father, the audience, and occasionally restudying the geography of the theatre, murmured in the Inspector’s ear: “I was just reflecting on the unusual fact that with such a popular bit of dramatic trash as <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Gunplay</i>, seven seats in the direct vicinity of the murdered man’s seat should remain empty during the performance.”</p>
			<p>“When did you begin to wonder, my son?” said Queen, and while Ellery absently tapped the floor with his stick, barked, “Piggott!”</p>
			<p>The detective stepped forward.</p>
			<p>“Get the usherette who was on this aisle and the outside doorman⁠—that middle-aged fellow on the sidewalk⁠—and bring ’em here.”</p>
			<p>As Piggott walked off, a disheveled young man appeared by Queen’s side, wiping his face with a handkerchief.</p>
			<p>“Well, Flint?” asked Queen instantly.</p>
			<p>“I’ve been over this floor like a scrub-woman, Inspector. If you’re looking for a hat in this section of the theatre, it’s mighty well hidden.”</p>
			<p>“All right, Flint, stand by.”</p>
			<p>The detective trudged off. Ellery said slowly, “Didn’t really think your young Diogenes would find the tophat, did you, dad?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector grunted. He walked down the aisle and proceeded to lean over person after person, questioning each in low tones. All heads turned in his direction as he went from row to row, interrogating the occupants of the two aisle-seats successively. As he walked back in Ellery’s direction, his face expressionless, the policeman whom he had sent out with the piece of string, saluted him.</p>
			<p>“What size, officer?” asked the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“The clerk in the hat store said it was exactly 7⅛,” answered the bluecoat. Inspector Queen nodded, dismissing him.</p>
			<p>Velie strode up, with Panzer trailing worriedly behind. Ellery leaned forward with an air of keen absorption to catch Velie’s words. Queen grew tense, the light of a great interest on his face.</p>
			<p>“Well, Thomas,” he said, “what did you find in the box-office?”</p>
			<p>“Just this, Inspector,” reported Velie unemotionally. “The seven tickets for which you gave me the numbers are not in the ticket-rack. They were sold from the box-office window, at what date <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Panzer has no way of knowing.”</p>
			<p>“The tickets might have been turned over to an agency, you know, Velie,” remarked Ellery.</p>
			<p>“I verified that, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Queen,” answered Velie. “Those tickets were not assigned to any agency. There are definite records to prove it.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Queen stood very still, his grey eyes gleaming. Then he said, “In other words, gentlemen, it would seem that at a drama which has been playing to capacity business ever since its opening, seven tickets in a group were bought⁠—and then the purchasers conveniently forgot to attend the performance!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
