<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Queen to Queen</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Djuna had just cleared the table of the dinner-dishes and was serving coffee to the two Queens at six-thirty that evening when the outer doorbell rang. The little man-of-all-work straightened his tie, pulled down his jacket (while the Inspector and Ellery eyed him in twinkling amusement), and marched gravely into the foyer. He was back in a moment bearing a silver tray upon which lay two calling-cards. The Inspector picked them up with beetling brows.</p>
			<p>“Such ceremony, Djuna!” he murmured. “Well, well! So ‘Doc’ Prouty’s bringing a visitor. Show ’em in, you imp!”</p>
			<p>Djuna marched back and returned with the Chief Assistant Medical Examiner and a tall, thin, emaciated man, entirely bald and wearing a closely clipped beard. Queen and Ellery rose.</p>
			<p>“I’ve been expecting to hear from you, Doc!” Queen grinned, shaking hands with Prouty. “And if I’m not mistaken, here’s Professor Jones himself! Welcome to our castle, Doctor.” The thin man bowed.</p>
			<p>“This is my son and keeper of my conscience, Doctor,” Queen added, presenting Ellery. “Ellery⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thaddeus Jones.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones offered a large limp hand. “So you’re the chap Queen and Sampson keep prattling about!” he boomed. “Certainly happy to meet you, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve been fairly itching to be introduced to New York City’s Paracelsus and eminent Toxicologist,” smiled Ellery. “The honor of rattling the City’s skeletons is all yours.” He shuddered elaborately and indicated some chairs. The four men sat down.</p>
			<p>“Join us in some coffee, gentlemen,” urged Queen, and shouted to Djuna, whose bright eyes were visible from behind the kitchenette door. “Djuna! You rascal! Coffee for four!” Djuna grinned and disappeared, to pop out a moment later like a jack-in-the-box, bearing four cups of steaming coffee.</p>
			<p>Prouty, who resembled the popular conception of Mephistopheles, whipped from his pocket one of his black, dangerous-looking cigars and began to puff away furiously.</p>
			<p>“This chitter-chatter may be all right for you men of leisure,” he said briskly, between puffs, “but I’ve been working like a beaver all day analyzing the contents of a lady’s stomach, and I want to get home for some sleep.”</p>
			<p>“Hear, hear!” murmured Ellery, “I gather from your soliciting the aid of Professor Jones that you met with some obstruction in your analysis of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Field’s corporeal remains. Lay on, Æsculapius!”</p>
			<p>“I’ll lay on,” returned Prouty grimly. “You’re right⁠—I met with a violent obstruction. I’ve had some little experience, if you’ll pardon the professional modesty, in examining the innards of deceased ladies and gentlemen, but I’ll confess I never saw ’em in such a mess as this chap Field’s. Seriously, Jones will attest to the truth of <em>that</em>. His œsophagus, for example, and the entire tracheal tract looked as if someone had taken a blowtorch and played it gently over his insides.”</p>
			<p>“What was it⁠—couldn’t have been bichloride of mercury, could it, Doc?” asked Ellery, who prided himself on a complete ignorance of the exact sciences.</p>
			<p>“Hardly,” growled Prouty. “But let me tell you what happened. I analyzed for every poison on the calendar, and although this one had familiar petroleum components I couldn’t place it exactly. Yes, sir⁠—I was stumped good and proper. And to let you in on a secret⁠—the Medical Examiner himself, who thought I was pie-eyed from overwork, made a stab at it with his own fine Italian hand. The net result in his case, my boys, was zero. And the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">M.E.</abbr>’s not exactly a novice either when it comes to chemical analysis. So we surrendered the problem to our fountainhead of learning. Let him spout his own story.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thaddeus Jones cleared his throat forbiddingly. “Thank you, my friend, for a most dramatic introduction,” he said in his deep lumbering voice. “Yes, Inspector, the remains were turned over to me, and in all seriousness, I want to say here and now that my discovery was the most startling the Toxicologist’s office has made in fifteen years!”</p>
			<p>“My, my!” murmured Queen, taking a pinch of snuff. “I’m beginning to respect the mentality of our friend the murderer. So many things point to the unusual lately! And what did you find, Doctor?”</p>
			<p>“I took it for granted that Prouty and the Medical Examiner had done the preliminaries very well,” began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones, crossing his bony knees. “They generally do. And so, before doing anything else, I analyzed for the obscure poisons. Obscure, that is to say, from the standpoint of the criminal user. To show you how minutely I searched⁠—I even thought of that favorite standby of our friends the fiction-writers: <i>curare</i>, the South American toxin which makes the grade in four out of five detective stories. But even that sadly abused member of the toxic family disappointed me.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Ellery leaned back and laughed. “If you’re referring in a mildly satirical way to my profession, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones, let me inform you that I have never used <i>curare</i> in any of my novels.”</p>
			<p>The toxicologist’s eyes twinkled. “So you’re one of them, too, eh? Queen, old man,” he added dolorously, turning to the Inspector, who was thoughtfully chewing on a piece of French pastry, “allow me to offer you my condolences.⁠ ⁠… At any rate, gentlemen, let me explain that in the case of rare poisons we can generally come to a definite conclusion without much trouble⁠—that is, rare poisons that are in the pharmacopœia. Of course, there are any number of rare poisons of which we have no knowledge whatever⁠—Eastern drugs particularly.</p>
			<p>“Well, to make a long story short, I found myself faced with the unpleasant conclusion that I was up a tree.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones chuckled in reminiscence. “It wasn’t a pleasant conclusion. The poison I analyzed had certain properties which were vaguely familiar, as Prouty has said, and others which didn’t jibe at all. I spent most of yesterday evening mulling over my retorts and test-tubes, and late last night I suddenly got the answer.”</p>
			<p>Ellery and Queen sat up straight and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Prouty relaxed in his chair with a sigh, reaching for a second cup of coffee. The toxicologist uncrossed his legs, his voice booming more terrifyingly than ever.</p>
			<p>“The poison that killed your victim, Inspector, is known as tetra ethyl lead!”</p>
			<p>To a scientist this announcement, in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones’ profoundest tones, might have carried a dramatic quality. To the Inspector it meant less than nothing. As for Ellery, he murmured, “Sounds like a mythological monster to me!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones went on, smiling. “So it hasn’t impressed you much, eh? But let me tell you a little about tetra ethyl lead. It is almost colorless⁠—to be more exact, it resembles chloroform in physical appearance. Point number one. Point number two⁠—it has an odor⁠—faint, to be sure⁠—but distinctly like that of ether. Point number three⁠—it is fearfully potent. So potent⁠—but let me illustrate just what this devilishly powerful chemical substance will do to living tissue.”</p>
			<p>By this time the toxicologist had gained the entire attention of his audience.</p>
			<p>“I took a healthy rabbit, of the sort we use for experiment, and painted⁠—just painted, mind you⁠—the tender area behind the creature’s ear with an undiluted dose of the stuff. Remember, this was not an internal injection. It was merely a painting of the skin. It would have to be absorbed through the dermis before it reached the bloodstream. I watched the rabbit for an hour⁠—and after that I didn’t have to watch him any more. He was as dead as any dead rabbit I ever saw.”</p>
			<p>“That doesn’t seem so powerful to me, Doctor,” protested the Inspector.</p>
			<p>“It doesn’t, eh? Well, take my word for it that it’s extraordinary. For a mere daubing of whole, healthy skin⁠—I tell you, I was astounded. If the skin had an incision of some sort, or if the poison were administered internally, that would be a different story. You can imagine, therefore, what happened to Field’s insides when he <em>swallowed</em> the stuff⁠—and he swallowed plenty!”</p>
			<p>Ellery’s brow was wrinkled in thought. He began to polish the lenses of his pince-nez.</p>
			<p>“And that isn’t all,” resumed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones. “As far as I know⁠—and I have been in the service of the city for God knows how many years, and I’ve not kept uninformed about the progress of my science in other parts of the world, either⁠—as far as I know, tetra ethyl lead has never before been used for criminal purposes!”</p>
			<p>The Inspector drew up, startled. “That’s saying something, Doctor!” he muttered. “Are you sure?”</p>
			<p>“Positive. That’s why I’m so keenly interested.”</p>
			<p>“Just how long would it take for this poison to kill a man, Doctor?” asked Ellery slowly.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones grimaced. “That’s something I can’t answer definitely, for the very good reason that to my knowledge no human being has ever died of its effects before. But I can make a fairly good guess. I can’t conceive of Field having lived more than from fifteen to twenty minutes at the utmost after having taken the poison internally.”</p>
			<p>The silence that followed was broken by a cough from Queen. “On the other hand, Doctor, this very strangeness of the poison should make it fairly easy to trace. What, would you say, is its commonest source? Where does it come from? How would I go about getting it if I wanted some for a criminal purpose and didn’t want to leave a trail?”</p>
			<p>A gaunt smile lit up the features of the toxicologist. “The job of tracing this stuff, Inspector,” he said fervently, “I’ll leave to you. You can have it. Tetra ethyl lead, as far as I’ve been able to determine⁠—remember, it is almost entirely new to us⁠—occurs most commonly in certain petroleum products. I tinkered around quite a bit before I found the easiest way of making it in quantity. You’ll never guess how it’s done. It can be extracted from common, ordinary, everyday gasoline!”</p>
			<p>The two Queens exclaimed under their breaths. “Gasoline!” cried the Inspector. “Why⁠—how on earth could a man trace that?”</p>
			<p>“That’s the point,” answered the toxicologist. “I could go to the corner gas-station, fill up the tank of my car, run it home, extract some of the gasoline from the tank, go into my laboratory and distill the tetra ethyl lead in remarkably little time with remarkably little effort!”</p>
			<p>“Doesn’t that imply, Doctor,” put in Ellery hopefully, “that the murderer of Field had some laboratory experience⁠—knew something about chemical analysis, and all that sort of rot?”</p>
			<p>“No, it doesn’t. Any man with a home-brew ‘still’ in his house could distill that poison without leaving a trace. The beauty of the process is that the tetra ethyl lead in the gasoline has a higher boiling-point than any other of the fluid’s constituents. All you have to do is distill everything out up to a certain temperature, and what’s left is this poison.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector took a pinch of snuff with trembling fingers. “All I can say is⁠—I take my hat off to the murderer,” he muttered. “Tell me⁠—Doctor⁠—wouldn’t a man have to know quite a bit about toxicology to possess such knowledge? How could he ever know this without some special interest⁠—and therefore training⁠—in the subject?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones snorted. “Inspector, I’m surprised at you. Your question is already answered.”</p>
			<p>“How? What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Haven’t I just told you how to do it? And if you heard about the poison from a toxicologist, couldn’t you make some provided you had the ‘still’? You would require no knowledge except the boiling-point of tetra ethyl lead. Get along with you, Queen! You haven’t a chance in the world of tracing the murderer through the poison. In all probability he overheard a conversation between two toxicologists, or even between two medical men who had heard about the stuff. The rest was easy. I’m not saying this is so. The man might be a chemist, at that. But I’m concerned only in giving you the possibilities.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose it was administered in whiskey, eh, Doctor?” asked Queen abstractedly.</p>
			<p>“No doubt about it,” returned the toxicologist. “The stomach showed a large whiskey content. Certainly, it would be an easy way for the murderer to slip it over on his victim. With the whiskey you get nowadays, most of it smells etherized, anyway. And besides, Field probably had it down before he realized anything was wrong⁠—if he did at all.”</p>
			<p>“Wouldn’t he taste the stuff?” asked Ellery wearily.</p>
			<p>“I’ve never tasted it, young man, so I can’t say definitely,” answered <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones, a trifle tartly. “But I doubt whether he would⁠—sufficiently to alarm him, at any rate. Once he had it down it wouldn’t make any difference.”</p>
			<p>Queen turned to Prouty, whose cigar had gone out. He had fallen into a hearty doze. “Say, Doc!”</p>
			<p>Prouty opened his eyes sleepily. “Where are my slippers⁠—I can’t ever seem to find my slippers, damn it!”</p>
			<p>Despite the tension of the moment, there was a spontaneous roar of amusement at the expense of the Assistant Medical Examiner. When he had come to with sufficient thoroughness to understand what he had said, he joined the chuckling group and said, “Just goes to prove that I’d better be going home, Queen. What did you want to know?”</p>
			<p>“Tell me,” said Queen, still shaking, “what did you get from your analysis of the whiskey?”</p>
			<p>“Oh!” Prouty sobered instantly. “The whiskey in the flask was as fine as any I’ve ever tested⁠—and I’ve been doing nothing but testing booze for years now. It was the poison in the liquor on his breath that made me think at first that Field had drunk rotten booze. The Scotch and rye that you sent me in bottles from Field’s apartment were also of the very highest quality. Probably the flask’s contents came from the same place as the bottled stuff. In fact, I should say that both samples were imported goods. I haven’t come across domestic liquor of that calibre ever since the War⁠—that is, except for the prewar stuff that was stored away.⁠ ⁠… And I suppose Velie communicated my report to you that the ginger ale is okay.”</p>
			<p>Queen nodded. “Well, that seems to settle it,” he said heavily. “It looks as if we’re up against a blank wall on this tetra ethyl lead business. But just to make sure, Doc⁠—work along with the professor here and try to locate a possible leak somewhere in the distribution of the poison. You fellows know more about that than anybody I could put on the case. It’s just a stab in the dark and probably nothing will come of it.”</p>
			<p>“There’s no question about it,” murmured Ellery. “A novelist should stick to his last.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“I think,” remarked Ellery eagerly, after the two doctors had gone, “that I’ll amble down to my bookseller for that Falconer.” He rose and began a hasty search for his coat.</p>
			<p>“Here!” bellowed the Inspector, pulling him down into a chair. “Nothing doing. That blasted book of yours won’t run away. I want you to sit here and keep my headache company.”</p>
			<p>Ellery nestled into the leather cushions with a sigh. “Just when I get to feeling that all investigations into the foibles of the human mind are useless and a waste of time, my worthy sire puts the onus of thought upon me again. Heigh-ho! What’s on the menu?”</p>
			<p>“I’m not putting any onus on you at all,” growled Queen. “And stop using such big words. I’m dizzy enough. What I want you to do is help me go over this confounded mess of a case and see⁠—well, what we can see.”</p>
			<p>“I might have suspected it,” said Ellery. “Where do I start?”</p>
			<p>“You don’t,” grunted his father. “I’m doing the talking tonight and you’re going to listen. And you might make a few notes, too.</p>
			<p>“Let’s begin with Field. I think, in the first place, that we can take it for granted our friend went to the Roman Theatre Monday night not for pleasure but for business. Right?”</p>
			<p>“No doubt about it in my mind,” said Ellery. “What did Velie report about Field’s movements Monday?”</p>
			<p>“Field got to his office at 9:30⁠—his usual morning arrival-hour. He worked until noon. He had no personal visitors all day. At twelve o’clock he lunched at the Webster Club alone, and at 1:30 returned to his office. He worked steadily until 4:00⁠—and seems to have gone straight home, as the doorman and elevator-man both testify he arrived at the apartment about 4:30. Velie could get no further data except that Michaels arrived at 5:00 and left at 6:00. Field left at 7:30, dressed as we found him. I have a list of the clients whom he saw during the day, but it doesn’t tell much.”</p>
			<p>“How about the reason for his small bank account?” asked Ellery.</p>
			<p>“Just what I figured,” returned Queen. “Field has been losing steadily on the stock market⁠—and not chicken feed, either. Velie’s just run a little tip to earth which makes Field out as a frequent visitor to the racetrack, where he’s also dropped plenty. For a shrewd man, he certainly was an easy-mark for the wiseacres. Anyway, that explains his having so little cash in his personal account. And more than that⁠—it probably also explains more conclusively the item of ’50,000’ on the program we found. That meant money, and the money it referred to was in some way connected, I’m sure, with the person he was to meet at the theatre.</p>
			<p>“Now, I think that we can pretty well conclude that Field knew his murderer rather intimately. For one thing, he accepted a drink obviously without suspicion, or at least question; for another, the meeting seems to have been definitely arranged for purposes of concealment⁠—why, else, if that is not so, was the theatre chosen for the meeting at all?”</p>
			<p>“All right. Let me ask you the same question,” interposed Ellery, puckering his lips. “Why <em>should</em> a theatre be chosen as a meeting-place to transact a secret and undoubtedly nefarious business? Wouldn’t a park be more secret? Wouldn’t a hotel lobby have its advantages? Answer that.”</p>
			<p>“Unfortunately, my son,” said the Inspector mildly, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Field could have had no definite knowledge that he was going to be murdered. As far as he was concerned, all he was going to do was to take care of his part of the transaction. As a matter of fact, Field <em>himself</em> might have chosen the theatre as the place of meeting. Perhaps he wanted to establish an alibi for something. There’s no way of telling yet just what he wanted to do. As for the hotel lobby⁠—certainly he would run a grave risk of being seen. He might have been unwilling, further, to risk himself in such a lonely place as a park. And, lastly, he may have had some particular reason for not wanting to be seen in the company of the second party. Remember⁠—the ticket-stubs we found showed that the other person did not come into the theatre at the same time as Field. But this is all fruitless conjecture⁠—”</p>
			<p>Ellery smiled in a thoughtful manner, but said nothing. He was thinking to himself that the old man had not completely satisfied the objection, and that this was a strange thing in a man of Inspector Queen’s direct habits of thought.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>But Queen was continuing. “Very well. We must always bear in mind the further possibility that the person with whom Field transacted his business was <em>not</em> his murderer. Of course, this is merely a possibility. The crime seems to have been too well planned for that. But if this <em>is</em> so, then we must look for <em>two</em> people in the audience Monday night who were directly connected with Field’s death.”</p>
			<p>“Morgan?” asked Ellery idly.</p>
			<p>The Inspector shrugged his shoulders. “Perhaps. Why didn’t he tell us about it when we spoke to him yesterday afternoon? He confessed everything else. Well, maybe because he felt that a confession of having paid blackmail to the murdered man, together with the fact that he was found in the theatre, would be too damning a bit of circumstantial evidence.”</p>
			<p>“Look at it this way,” said Ellery. “Here we find a man dead who has written on his program the number ’50,000,’ obviously referring to dollars. We know from what both Sampson and Cronin have told us about Field that he was a man of unscrupulous and probably criminal character. Further, we know from Morgan that he was also a blackmailer. I think, therefore, we can deduce safely that he went to the Roman Theatre on Monday night to collect or arrange for the payment of $50,000 in blackmail from some person unknown. Right so far?”</p>
			<p>“Go ahead,” grunted the Inspector noncommittally.</p>
			<p>“Very well,” continued Ellery. “If we conclude that the person blackmailed that night and the murderer were one and the same, we need look no farther for a motive. There’s the motive ready made⁠—to choke off the blackmailing Field. <em>If</em>, however, we proceed on the assumption that the murderer and the person blackmailed were not the same, but two entirely different individuals, <em>then</em> we must still scrabble about looking for a motive for the crime. My personal opinion is that this is unnecessary⁠—that the murderer and the blackmailed person are one. What do you think?”</p>
			<p>“I’m inclined to agree with you, Ellery,” said the Inspector. “I merely mentioned the other possibility⁠—did not state my own conviction. Let us proceed, for the time being, then, on the assumption that Field’s blackmail victim and his murderer were the same.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>“Now⁠—I want to clear up the matter of the missing tickets.”</p>
			<p>“Ah⁠—the missing tickets,” murmured Ellery. “I was wondering what you made of that.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t be funny, now, you rascal,” growled Queen. “Here’s what I make of it. All in all, we are dealing with eight seats⁠—one in which Field sat, for which we have the stub found on Field’s person; one in which the murderer sat, for which we have the stub found by Flint; and finally the six empty seats for which tickets were bought, as established by the box-office report, and for which stubs were not found, torn or whole, anywhere in the theatre or box-office. First of all, it is barely possible that all of those six whole tickets were in the theatre Monday night, and went out of the theatre on somebody’s person. Remember, the search of individuals was necessarily not so exhaustive as to include an examination for small things like tickets. This, however, is highly improbable. The best explanation is that either Field or his murderer bought all eight tickets at one time, intending to use two and reserving the other six to insure absolute privacy during the short time that the business was to be transacted. In this case, the most sensible thing to have done was to destroy the tickets as soon as they were bought; which was probably done by either Field or the murderer, according to who made the arrangements. We must, therefore, forget those six tickets⁠—they’re gone and we’ll never get our hands on them.</p>
			<p>“To proceed,” continued the Inspector. “We know that Field and his victim entered the theatre separately. This may positively be deduced from the fact that when I put the two stubs back to front, the torn edges did not match. When two people enter together, the tickets are presented together and are invariably torn together. Now⁠—this does not say that they did not come in at practically the same time, because for purposes of safety they may have come in one after the other, as if they did not know each other. However, Madge O’Connell claims no one sat in LL30 during Act I, and the orangeade-boy, Jess Lynch, testified that ten minutes after Act <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span> had started, there was still no one in LL30. This means that the murderer either had not yet entered the theatre, <em>or</em> he had come in before but was sitting in some other part of the orchestra, having a ticket necessarily for another seat.”</p>
			<p>Ellery shook his head. “I realize that as well as you, son,” said the old man testily. “I’m just following the thought through. I was going to say that it doesn’t seem likely the murderer had come into the theatre at the regular time. It’s probable that he entered at least ten minutes after the second act started.”</p>
			<p>“I can give you a proof of that,” said Ellery lazily.</p>
			<p>The Inspector took a pinch of snuff. “I know⁠—those cabalistic figures on the program. How did they read?</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>930</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>815</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td>50,000</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>“We know what the fifty-thousand represented. The other two figures must have referred not to dollars, but to time. Look at the ’815.’ The play started at 8:25. In all likelihood Field arrived about 8:15, or if he arrived sooner, he had some cause to refer to his watch at that time. Now, if he had an appointment with someone who, we assume, arrived much later, what more likely than that Field should have idly jotted down on his program⁠—first, the ’50,000,’ which indicates that he was thinking about the impending transaction, which involved $50,000 in blackmail; then 8:15, the time he was thinking about it; and finally 9:30⁠—the time the blackmail victim was due to arrive! It’s the most natural thing in the world for Field to have done this, as it would be for anyone who is in the habit of scribbling in idle moments. It’s very fortunate for us, because it points to two things: first, to the exact time of the appointment with the murderer⁠—9:30; and, second, it corroborates our conjecture as regards the actual time the murder was committed. At 9:25 Lynch saw Field alive and alone; at 9:30, by Field’s written evidence, the murderer was due to arrive, and we take it for granted he did; according to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jones’ statement it would take the poison from fifteen to twenty minutes to kill Field⁠—and in view of Pusak’s discovery at 9:55 of the dead body, we may say that the poison was administered about 9:35. If the tetra ethyl lead took at the most twenty minutes⁠—that gives us 9:55. Much before then, of course, the murderer left the scene of the crime. Remember⁠—he could not have known that our friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pusak would suddenly desire to rise and leave his seat. The murderer was probably figuring that Field’s body would not be discovered until the intermission, at 10:05, which would have been ample time for Field to have died without being able to murmur any message at all. Luckily for our mysterious murderer Field was discovered too late to gasp more than the information that he’d been murdered. If Pusak had walked out five minutes earlier we’d have our elusive friend behind the bars right now.”</p>
			<p>“Bravo!” murmured Ellery, smiling affectionately. “A perfect recitation. My congratulations.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, go jump in the bathtub,” growled his father. “At this point I just want to repeat what you brought out Monday night in Panzer’s office⁠—the fact that although the murderer quitted the scene of the crime between 9:30 and 9:55, he was present in the theatre all the rest of the evening until we allowed everybody to go home. Your examination of the guards and the O’Connell girl, together with the doormen’s evidence, Jess Lynch’s presence in the alley, the usher’s corroboration of this fact and all the rest of it, takes care of that.⁠ ⁠… He was there, all right.</p>
			<p>“This leaves us momentarily up a tree. All we can do now is consider some of the personalities we’ve bumped into in the course of the investigation,” went on the Inspector with a sigh. “First⁠—did Madge O’Connell tell the truth when she said she had seen no one pass up or down the aisle during the second act? And that she had not seen, at any time during the evening at all, the person whom we know sat in LL30 from half-past nine until ten or fifteen minutes before the body was discovered?”</p>
			<p>“It’s a tricky question, dad,” remarked Ellery seriously, “because if she was lying about these things, we are losing a mine of information. If she <em>was</em> lying⁠—good Lord!⁠—she might be in a position at this moment either to describe, or identify, or possibly name the murderer! However, her nervousness and peculiar attitude might be ascribed to her knowledge that Parson Johnny was in the theatre, with a pack of policemen just aching to get their fingers on him.”</p>
			<p>“Sounds reasonable to me,” grumbled Queen. “Well, what about Parson Johnny? How does he fit into this⁠—or does he fit into it at all? We must always remember that, according to Morgan’s statement, Cazzanelli was actively associated with Field. Field had been his lawyer, and perhaps had even bought the Parson’s services for this shady business Cronin is nosing around about. If the Parson was not there by accident, was he there through Field or through Madge O’Connell, as she and he both say? I think, my son,” he added with a fierce tug at his mustache, “that I’m going to give Parson Johnny a taste of the lash⁠—it won’t hurt his thick hide! And that snippy little O’Connell chit⁠—won’t do any harm to scare the wits out of her either.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He took an enormous pinch of snuff, sneezing to the tune of Ellery’s sympathetic chuckles.</p>
			<p>“And dear old Benjamin Morgan,” continued the Inspector, “was he telling the truth about the anonymous letter which so conveniently gave him a mysterious source for his theatre ticket?</p>
			<p>“And that most interesting lady, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Angela Russo.⁠ ⁠… Ah, the ladies, bless ’em! They always muddle a man’s logic so. What did she say⁠—that she came to Field’s apartment at 9:30? Is her alibi perfectly sound? Of course, the doorman at the apartment house confirmed her statement. But it’s easy to ‘fix’ doormen.⁠ ⁠… Does she know more than she has indicated about Field’s business⁠—particularly his private business? Was she lying when she said that Field told her he would be back at ten o’clock? Remember, we know that Field had an appointment in the Roman Theatre beginning at 9:30⁠—did he really expect to keep it and be back at his rooms by ten o’clock? By cab it would be a fifteen or twenty-minute drive, through traffic, which would leave only ten minutes for the transaction⁠—possible, of course. Couldn’t do it much sooner by subway, either. We mustn’t forget, too, that this woman was not in the theatre at any time during the evening.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll have your hands full with that fair flower of Eve,” remarked Ellery. “It’s so beautifully evident that she’s keeping back a story of some sort. Did you notice that brazen defiance? Wasn’t mere bravado. She knows something, dad. I would certainly keep my eye on her⁠—sooner or later she’ll give herself away.”</p>
			<p>“Hagstrom will take care of her,” said Queen abstractedly. “Now, how about Michaels? He has no supported alibi for Monday evening. But then it might not make any difference. He wasn’t in the theatre.⁠ ⁠… There’s something fishy about that fellow. Was he really looking for something when he came to Field’s apartment Tuesday morning? We’ve made a thorough search of the premises⁠—is it possible we’ve overlooked something? It’s quite evident that he was lying when he spilled that story about the check, and not knowing that Field was dead. And consider this⁠—he <em>must</em> have realized that he was running into danger in coming to Field’s rooms. He’d read about the murder and couldn’t have hoped that the police would delay going to the place. So he was taking a desperate chance⁠—for what reason? Answer that one!”</p>
			<p>“It might have had something to do with his imprisonment⁠—by George, he looked surprised when I accused him, didn’t he?” chuckled Ellery.</p>
			<p>“Might at that,” returned the Inspector. “By the way. I’ve heard from Velie about Michaels’ term up in Elmira. Thomas reports that it was a hushed-up case⁠—much more serious than the light sentence in the Reformatory indicates. Michaels was suspected of forgery⁠—and it looked mighty black for him. Then Lawyer Field nicely got <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Michaels off on an entirely different count⁠—something to do with petty larceny⁠—and nothing was ever heard about the forgery business again. This boy Michaels looks like the real thing⁠—have to step on his heels a bit.”</p>
			<p>“I have a little idea of my own about Michaels,” said Ellery thoughtfully. “But let it go for the present.”</p>
			<p>Queen seemed not to hear. He stared into the fire roaring in the stone fireplace. “There’s Lewin, too,” he said. “Seems incredible that a man of Lewin’s stamp should have been so confidentially associated with his employer without knowing a good deal more than he professes. Is he keeping something back? If he is, heaven help him⁠—because Cronin will just about pulverize him!”</p>
			<p>“I rather like that chap Cronin,” sighed Ellery. “How on earth can a fellow be so set on one idea?⁠ ⁠… Has this occurred to you? I wonder if Morgan knows Angela Russo? Despite the fact that both of them deny a mutual acquaintance. Would be deucedly interesting if they did, wouldn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“My son,” groaned Queen, “don’t go looking for trouble. We’ve a peck of it now without going out of our way for more.⁠ ⁠… By jingo!”</p>
			<p>There was a comfortable silence as the Inspector sprawled in the light of the leaping flames. Ellery munched contentedly on a succulent piece of pastry. Djuna’s bright eyes gleamed from the far corner of the room, where he had stolen noiselessly and squatted on his thin haunches on the floor, listening to the conversation.</p>
			<p>Suddenly the old man’s eyes met Ellery’s in a spasmodic transference of thought.</p>
			<p>“The hat.⁠ ⁠…” muttered Queen. “We always come back to the hat.”</p>
			<p>Ellery’s glance was troubled. “And not a bad thing to come back to, dad. Hat⁠—hat⁠—hat! Where does it fit in? Just what do we know about it?”</p>
			<p>The Inspector shifted in his chair. He crossed his legs, took another pinch of snuff and proceeded with a fresh vigor. “All right. We can’t afford to be lazy in the matter of that blamed silk-topper,” he said briskly. “What do we know so far? First, that the hat did not leave the theatre. It seems funny, doesn’t it? Doesn’t seem possible that we would find no trace at all after such a thorough search.⁠ ⁠… Nothing was left in the cloakroom after everybody was gone; nothing was found in the sweepings that might indicate a hat torn to small pieces or burned; in fact, not a trace, not a thing for us to go on. Therefore, Ellery, the only sensible conclusion we can make at this point is <em>that we haven’t looked for the hat in the right place</em>! And further, wherever it is, it’s still there, due to our precaution of closing the theatre down since Monday night. Ellery, we’ve got to go back tomorrow morning and turn that place upside down. I won’t sleep until we see light somewhere in this matter.”</p>
			<p>Ellery was silent. “I’m not at all satisfied with things as you’ve stated them, dad,” he muttered at last. “Hat⁠—hat⁠—there’s something wrong somewhere!” He fell silent once more. “No! The hat is the focal point of this investigation⁠—I cannot see any other way out of it. Solve the mystery of Field’s hat and you will find the one essential clue that will point to the murderer. I’m so convinced of this that I’ll be satisfied we’re on the right track only when we’re making progress in the explanation of the hat.”</p>
			<p>The old man nodded his head vigorously. “Ever since yesterday morning, when I had time to think over the hat business, I’ve felt that we had gone astray somewhere. And here it is Wednesday night⁠—still no light. We’ve done necessary things⁠—they’ve led nowhere.⁠ ⁠…” He stared into the fire. “Everything is so badly muddled. I’ve got all the loose ends at my fingertips, but for some blasted reason I can’t seem to make them cohere⁠—fit together⁠—<em>explain</em> anything.⁠ ⁠… Undoubtedly, son, what is missing is the story of the top-piece.”</p>
			<p>The telephone bell rang. The Inspector sprang for the instrument. He listened attentively to a man’s unhurried tones, made a brisk comment and finally hung up.</p>
			<p>“Who’s the latest midnight babbler, O recipient of many confidences?” asked Ellery, grinning.</p>
			<p>“That was Edmund Crewe,” said Queen. “You remember I asked him yesterday morning to go over the Roman. He spent all of yesterday and today at it. And he reports positively that there is no secret hiding-place anywhere on the premises of the theatre. If Eddie Crewe, who is about the last word in architectural matters of this kind, says there’s no hiding-place there, you may rest assured it’s so.”</p>
			<p>He jumped to his feet and espied Djuna squatting on his hams in the corner. “Djuna! Get the old bed ready,” he roared. Djuna slipped through the room and disappeared with a silent grin. Queen wheeled on Ellery, who had already taken off his coat and was fumbling with his tie.</p>
			<p>“The first thing we do tomorrow morning is go down to the Roman Theatre and start all over again!” the old man said decisively. “And let me tell you, son⁠—I’m through fooling around! Somebody’d better watch out!”</p>
			<p>Ellery affectionately encircled his father’s shoulders with one great arm. “Come on to bed, you old fraud!” he laughed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
