<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Lexicon of Persons Connected with the Investigation</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lexicon of Persons Connected with the Investigation</h2>
			<div>
				<p><b>Note</b>: The complete list of individuals, male and female, brought into the story of Monte Field’s murder and appended below is given solely for the convenience of the reader. It is intended to simplify rather than mystify. In the course of perusing mysterio-detective literature the reader is, like as not, apt to lose sight of a number of seemingly unimportant characters who eventually prove of primary significance in the solution of the crime. The writer therefore urges a frequent study of this chart during the reader’s pilgrimage through the tale, if toward no other end than to ward off the inevitable cry of “Unfair!”⁠—the consolation of those who read and do not reason.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:signature">
						<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. Q.</abbr>
					</p>
				</footer>
			</div>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p><b>Monte Field</b>, an important personage indeed⁠—the victim.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>William Pusak</b>, clerk. Cranially a brachycephalic.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Doyle</b>, a gendarme with brains.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Louis Panzer</b>, a Broadway theatre-manager.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>James Peale</b>, the Don Juan of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Gunplay</i>.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Eve Ellis</b>. The quality of friendship is not strained.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Stephen Barry</b>. One can understand the perturbation of the juvenile lead.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Lucille Horton</b>, the “lady of the streets”⁠—in the play.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Hilda Orange</b>, a celebrated English character-actress.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Thomas Velie</b>, Detective-Sergeant who knows a thing or two about crime.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Hesse</b>, <b>Piggott</b>, <b>Flint</b>, <b>Johnson</b>, <b>Hagstrom</b>, <b>Ritter</b>, gentlemen of the Homicide Squad.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Samuel Prouty</b>, Assistant to the Chief Medical Examiner.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Madge O’Connell</b>, usherette on the fatal aisle.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stuttgard</b>. There is always a doctor in the audience.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Jess Lynch</b>, the obliging orangeade-boy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>John Cazzanelli</b>, alias “<b>Parson Johnny</b>,” naturally takes a professional interest in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Gunplay</i>.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Benjamin Morgan</b>. What do you make of him?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Frances Ives-Pope</b>. Enter the society interest.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Stanford Ives-Pope</b>, man-about-town.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Harry Neilson</b>. He revels in the sweet uses of publicity.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Henry Sampson</b>, for once an intelligent District Attorney.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Charles Michaels</b>, the fly⁠—or the spider?</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Angela Russo</b>, a lady of reputation.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Timothy Cronin</b>, a legal ferret.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Arthur Stoates</b>, another.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Oscar Lewin</b>, the Charon of the dead man’s office.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Franklin Ives-Pope</b>. If wealth meant happiness⁠—</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Franklin Ives-Pope</b>, a maternal hypochondriac.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Phillips</b>. Middle-aged angels have their uses.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thaddeus Jones</b>, toxicologist of the City of New York.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Edmund Crewe</b>, architectural expert attached to the Detective Bureau.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><b>Djuna</b>, an Admirable Crichton of a new species.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<div>
				<p>The Problem Is⁠—</p>
				<p>Who Killed Monte Field?</p>
				<p>Meet the astute gentlemen whose business it is to discover such things⁠—</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Richard Queen<br/>
				<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ellery Queen</p>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
